---

title: Sounding reference signal (SRS) mechanism for intracell device-to-device (D2D) communication
abstract: Technology for device discovery using a device-to-device (D2D) sounding reference signal (SRS) and device discovery using D2D SRS in a channel measurement group (CMG) is disclosed. In an example, a user equipment (UE) configured for device discovery via a node using the D2D SRS can include a transceiver module. The transceiver module can send a radio resource control (RRC) device discovery request to a node, scan D2D SRS subframes of proximity UEs using D2D SRS triggering, and send feedback to the node of detected D2D SRS information of the proximity UEs. The proximity UE can be located within a same cell as the UE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09154267&OS=09154267&RS=09154267
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09154267
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130104
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 667 325 filed Jul. 2 2012.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

Wireless mobile communication technology can also include device to device D2D communication where two wireless devices e.g. UEs can communicate directly with each other without a node. In some configurations the wireless devices may include a radio to communicate with the node and a radio to communicate directly with another wireless device. In other configurations wireless devices with a single radio may also communicate with the node and the other wireless devices at different time intervals.

D2D communication and communication between a node and a wireless device can use time division duplexing TDD or frequency division duplexing FDD for DL or UL transmissions. Time division duplexing TDD is an application of time division multiplexing TDM to separate downlink and uplink signals or separate signals to a UE or from the UE in D2D communication . In TDD downlink signals and uplink signals may be carried on a same carrier frequency i.e. shared carrier frequency where the downlink signals use a different time interval from the uplink signals so the downlink signals and the uplink signals do not generate interference for each other. TDM is a type of digital multiplexing in which two or more bit streams or signals such as a downlink or uplink are transferred apparently simultaneously as sub channels in one communication channel but are physically transmitted on different resources. In frequency division duplexing FDD an uplink transmission and a downlink transmission or a transmission to and from a UE in D2D communication can operate using different frequency carriers i.e. separate carrier frequency for each transmission direction . In FDD interference can be avoided because the downlink signals use a different frequency carrier from the uplink signals.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

With the proliferation of wireless devices equipped with one or more cellular modem s long term evolution LTE direct communication can be a feature that can significantly enhance and complement the performance of LTE technology. Furthermore proximity based applications and services represent an enormous social technological trend. An LTE direct communication capability such as device to device D2D communication can use LTE protocols for proximity based applications and services. Additionally direct device to device D2D communications can be important to public safety first responders as well as for offloading a traffic load of cellular network in some cases.

In an example the D2D communication underlaying a 3GPP LTE Advanced cellular network can enable local services with limited interference impact on a primary cellular network. illustrates user equipments UEs UE2 and UE3 communicating via a node link e.g. uplink and downlink transmissions with a node and UE0 and UE1 using D2D communication e.g. D2D link as an underlay to a cellular network.

An overall D2D communication procedure can be divided into at least two basic stages Proximity based device discovery and subsequent D2D communication. Some principles to consider for a device discovery method can include Controlled interference to and from legacy UEs to assure a device discovery accuracy minimal to no device discovery signaling collision to enable device discovery in a timely manner and scalability for device discovery signal resources allocation according to the number of D2D UEs i.e. ability to handle few or large numbers of D2D UEs .

Device discovery signal resources allocation and high layer signaling procedure can be designed and defined considering the device discovery principles to enable D2D communication in an efficient way.

A sounding reference signal aided SRS aided device discovery method can be used to enable D2D communication taking into account factors such as backward compatibility with frequency hopping SRS from legacy UEs and potential intra cell physical uplink shared channel PUSCH interference without coordination. Sounding reference signals can include reference signals transmitted in an uplink UL transmission to enable the node to perform channel sounding which can be used to support frequency domain scheduling. The Physical Uplink Shared CHannel PUSCH can be an uplink physical channel carrying scheduled data traffic and possible control signaling. The PUSCH can be carried in subframes of a radio frame.

In the time domain the SRS can occupy the last orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbol of a SRS uplink subframe. Each subframe in the radio frame can have a subframe index e.g. 0 9 . Each subframe can include either 12 or 14 OFDM symbols on the time axis. Uplink subframes can include a SRS or may not include a SRS. The signaling overhead due to SRS when half of the subframes assuming 14 OFDM symbols per subframe in a radio frame including the SRS can be 3.6 i.e. 5 140 OFDM symbols of the total uplink transmission bandwidth. The signaling overhead due to SRS when all of the subframes assuming 14 OFDM symbols per subframe in a radio frame including the SRS can be 7.1 i.e. 10 140 OFDM symbols of the total uplink transmission bandwidth. In the frequency domain the minimum SRS bandwidth in the LTE system can be four physical resource blocks PRBs .

Device discovery can modify legacy signals typically used for uplink and downlink communication between the node and wireless device and modify the signaling procedure to include signaling to proximity wireless devices within a specified proximity of the wireless device. For example a device discovery can be divided into at least two dependent parts Discovery signal design part 1 and device discovery signaling procedures part 2 .

Resources allocation RA for D2D SRS used in discovery signaling part 1 can include a cell specific D2D SRS configuration a UE specific D2D SRS configuration aperiodic D2D SRS e.g. LTE type 1 D2D SRS triggering and UE feedback.

The periodicity and index of cell specific subframes for D2D SRS can be deduced using parameters T T and . Tis the cell specific subframe configuration period and signaled in the SIB2 message. Tis a cell specific parameter restricted to integer multiples e.g. X of Tto avoid the PUSCH interference. is the cell specific subframe offset for the transmission of D2D SRS. The can also be expressed as integer multiples e.g. M or N of T which can determine the subframes in which D2D SRS are transmitted by UEs. The integers i and j in are two indices of subframes generally used to show two cell specific D2D SRS resources location in time domain.

Cell specific D2D SRS configurations can be transmitted via broadcasting system information such as SIB2 or a handover message as a separate information element such as D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigCommon shown in . In particular parameters Tand can be jointly coded and subsequently signaled through a single parameter in radio resource control RRC signal. Broadcasting the cell specific D2D SRS configuration can reduce power consumption of D2D UEs by reducing the number of SRS signals to scan and or detect since the D2D UEs can scan and or detect and attempt to blindly decode the D2D SRS signal on all possible D2D SRS opportunities. By setting an upper limit on the D2D SRS subframes UEs can detect a limited number of subframe for device discovery.

The transmission power of the D2D SRS can be explicitly broadcasted in the SIB information or implicitly signaled according to a one to one mapping as shown in Table 1 with a configured D2D SRS bandwidth as depicted in . As shown in Table 1 a one to one mapping between a D2D SRS bandwidth BW and a corresponding predefined transmission power can exist in implicit signaling e.g. D2D SRS bandwidth so the UE can subsequently determine an allowed transmission Tx power once a BW value is detected. The one to one mapping e.g. Table 1 can be predefined by specification and pre known by each D2D UE as apriori knowledge or initially signaled to each D2D UE for subsequent use.

As an alternative to a cell specific D2D SRS configuration a UE specific D2D SRS configuration can be used. Regarding the UE specific D2D SRS configuration two types of D2D SRS transmissions can be supported for each D2D capable UE A periodic D2D SRS transmission such as LTE type 0 D2D SRS and aperiodic SRS such as LTE type 1 D2D SRS which can be characterized as a one shot transmission. In an example the device discovery method can use periodic D2D SRS configuration e.g. LTE type 0 D2D SRS configuration or an aperiodic D2D SRS configuration e.g. LTE type 1 D2D SRS configuration . The periodic D2D SRS configuration allows the node e.g. eNB to periodically schedule the SRS for specified wireless devices e.g. UEs for device discovery. The aperiodic D2D SRS configuration allows a node e.g. eNB to trigger the wireless device e.g. UE to transmit a one shot aperiodic SRS for device discovery using a specified time frame and or triggering mechanism.

The UE specific D2D SRS configurable parameters can include a cyclic shift value a frequency domain location a transmission combination comb a subframe index and a periodicity. A periodicity may not be used in a LTE type 1 D2D SRS since the transmissions may be triggered instead of repeating a D2D SRS transmission pattern. For the periodic D2D SRS the subframe index and periodicity can be joint coded and signaled through a single parameter such as an IE srs ConfigIndex as shown in .

For example UE0 in can have D2D capability and transmit SRS in a D2D SRS bandwidth which may be smaller than a legacy SRS bandwidth using comb 1 and cyclic shift 1. UE1 can also have D2D capability and transmit SRS using comb 1 but with cyclic shift 3. In an example the SRS can use a same Zadoff Chu sequence as a UL demodulation reference signal DM RS . Since the cyclic shift versions of the Zadoff Chu sequence are orthogonal several UEs e.g. up to 8 can transmit using different cyclic shifts on a same physical radio resource. A Zadoff Chu sequence is a complex valued mathematical sequence which when applied to radio signals gives rise to an electromagnetic signal of constant amplitude whereby cyclically shifted versions of the sequence imposed on a signal result in zero cross correlation with one another at a receiver. A generated Zadoff Chu sequence that has not been shifted is known as a base sequence e.g. CS 0 or a root sequence. The assignment of SRS or DM RS base sequences can be cell specific where wireless devices scheduled for an uplink transmission in a cell can be assigned a same base sequence and different cyclic shifts CS to provide orthogonality between simultaneous SRS or DM RS transmissions from wireless devices within a cell.

UE2 in may not have D2D capability i.e. non D2D capability and may transmit an SRS in the legacy SRS bandwidth using comb 2 and cyclic shift 1. The SRS or D2D SRS may be used for channel quality estimation.

The UE specific D2D SRS configurations for LTE type 0 and type 1 D2D SRS can be separately indicated in one RRC message. A D2D capable UE can commence the aperiodic D2D SRS transmission on a first UE specific D2D SRS subframe k satisfying k n 4 upon detection of an aperiodic SRS request in subframe n. For example the aperiodic D2D SRS transmission can occur on a first UE specific D2D SRS that is at least 4 subframes after the aperiodic SRS request. The aperiodic SRS request can be signaled using a legacy physical downlink control channel PDCCH or an enhanced PDCCH ePDCCH .

In one example the legacy PDCCH and PDSCH can represent elements of a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a downlink transmission between a node e.g. eNodeB and the wireless device e.g. UE using a generic long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in . An uplink transmission may have a similar frame structure to the downlink transmission used in to transmit uplink information such as the sounding reference signal SRS and physical uplink shared channel PUSCH from the wireless device to the node.

Each slot for a component carrier CC used by the node and the wireless device can include multiple resource blocks RBs and based on the CC frequency bandwidth. The CC can have a carrier frequency having a bandwidth and center frequency. Each subframe of the CC can include downlink control information DCI found in the legacy PDCCH. The legacy PDCCH in the control region can include one to three columns of the first OFDM symbols in each subframe or physical RB PRB when a legacy PDCCH is used. The remaining 11 to 13 OFDM symbols in the subframe may be allocated to the PDSCH for data for short or normal cyclic prefix .

Each RB physical RB or PRB can include 12 15 kHz subcarriers on the frequency axis and 6 or 7 orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols on the time axis per slot. The RB can use seven OFDM symbols if a short or normal cyclic prefix CP is employed. The RB can use six OFDM symbols if an extended cyclic prefix is used. The resource block can be mapped to 84 resource elements REs using short or normal cyclic prefixing or the resource block can be mapped to 72 REs not shown using extended cyclic prefixing. The RE can be a unit of one OFDM symbol by one subcarrier i.e. 15 kHz .

Each RE can transmit two bits and of information in the case of quadrature phase shift keying QPSK modulation. Other types of modulation may be used such as 16 quadrature amplitude modulation QAM . 64 QAM 128 QAM 256 QAM and so forth to transmit a greater number of bits in each RE or bi phase shift keying BPSK modulation to transmit a lesser number of bits a single bit in each RE. The RB can be configured for a downlink transmission from the eNodeB to the UE or the RB can be configured for an uplink transmission from the UE to the eNodeB or the RB can be configured for D2D transmission between the UE and a proximity UE in proximity to the UE.

The PDCCH or ePDCCH can be used for aperiodic D2D SRS triggering e.g. LTE type 1 D2D SRS triggering . A downlink control information DCI format can be defined to trigger the aperiodic D2D SRS transmission for a group of D2D UEs. Each D2D UE can be allocated a discovery radio network temporary identifier D RNTI which can be used for scrambling the cyclic redundancy check CRC part attached to D2D specific DCI format. Cyclic redundancy check CRC can be an error detecting code appended to a block of data to be transmitted. The value of the CRC can be calculated from the block of data. The length of the CRC can determine the number of errors which can be detected in the block of data on reception of the data. A CRC may not be able to correct errors or determine which bits are erroneous.

The D RNTI allocation may be based on the D2D UE s positioning or the D2D devices detected and feedback the information to eNB during the device discovery process. D2D UEs not transmitting a D2D SRS can monitor the PDCCH for a D RNTI value on the CRC part. The D RNTI allocation and detection can provide a mechanism for a scenario when a new D2D UE initially accesses a network e.g. LTE network and attempts to quickly discover as many D2D UEs as possible. The DCI format size can be extended by adding padding bits to be a same size as legacy DCIs into a candidate s limited size in order to reduce the blind decoding complexity for the UE.

Blind decoding can be used detect a UE s DCI. The UE may only be informed of the number of OFDM symbol within the control region of a subframe and may not be provided with an exact location of the UE s corresponding PDCCH. The PDCCH or ePDCCH can provide control information to multiple UEs in a cell for each subframe k. The UE can perform blind decoding since the UE may be aware of the detailed control channel structure including the number of control channels CCHs and the number of control channel elements CCEs to which each control channel is mapped. Multiple PDCCHs can be transmitted in a single subframe k which may or may not be relevant to a particular UE. Because the UE does not know the precise location of the DCI information in a PDCCH the UE can search and decode the CCEs in the PDCCH until the DCI is found for the UE s CCs. The PDCCH candidates for DCI detection can be referred to as a search space. The UE can find the PDCCH specific to the UE or the UE s CCs by monitoring a set of PDCCH candidates a set of consecutive CCEs on which the PDCCH could be mapped in a PDCCH search space in each subframe.

In the 3GPP LTE specification such as in Release 8 9 10 or 11 the UE can use a radio network temporary identifier RNTI that can be assigned to the UE by the eNB to try and decode candidates. The RNTI can be used to demask a PDCCH candidate s cyclic redundancy check CRC that was originally masked by the eNB using the UE s RNTI. If the PDCCH is for a specific UE the CRC can be masked with a UE unique identifier for example a cell RNTI C RNTI used in a downlink. If no CRC error is detected the UE can determine that a PDCCH candidate carries the DCI for the UE. If a CRC error is detected then the UE can determine that PDCCH candidate does not carry the DCI for the UE and the UE can increment to the next PDCCH candidate. The UE may increment to the next PDCCH candidate in the search space based on the CCE aggregation level.

For device discovery a D RNTI can be used by the D2D capable UEs. Since the D RNTI can be common to a group of D2D UEs each UE can be allocated an exclusive index such as Group Index to identify the UEs in the same D2D group. The exclusive index e.g. group index allows the eNB to indicate which UEs in the same D2D group can transmit an aperiodic D2D SRS after receiving one DCI format scrambling with the group s D RNTI. In an example a D RNTI can also be used by all the D2D capable UEs in a cell so practically D RNTI can be used in a cell specific way. illustrates a DCI format for a LTE group type 1 D2D SRS transmission. For example a bit can be used to specify which UEs via a group index in the group via a D RNTI enable aperiodic SRS transmissions LTE type 1 D2D SRS transmissions and which UEs disable aperiodic SRS transmissions for a subframe. For instance a 0 bit in a bit position representing a group index can represent a disabled LTE type 1 SRS transmission and a 1 bit in a bit position representing a group index can represent an enabled LTE type 1 SRS transmission.

Aperiodic D2D SRS triggering e.g. LTE type 1 D2D SRS triggering can be used for periodic D2D SRS detection and aperiodic D2D SRS detection. Wireless devices using periodic D2D SRS detection can be multiplexed together in a same discrete Fourier transform spread DFTS OFDM DFTS OFDM symbol e.g. single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA as shown in so the wireless devices may not be able to detect each other without aperiodic D2D SRS triggering.

Periodic D2D SRS triggering can use a D2D SRS muting pattern to determine which UEs scan and which UEs transmit which can be explicit signaled or implicitly determined. For example illustrates a D2D SRS muting pattern assuming a type 0 SRS configuration for UE0 UE1 and or UE4 are co located in one SC FDMA symbol as shown in .

For a D2D SRS muting pattern for a LTE type 0 D2D SRS transmission one SRS transmission opportunity can be selected every multiple consecutive UE specific type 0 D2D SRS transmission opportunities for muting which can be different for co located D2D UEs. At the muted opportunity a D2D UE can listen and or scan the other UEs type 0 SRS signal for device discovery. The exact pattern can be either explicitly configured by RRC signaling option 1 as shown in or alternatively implicitly determined by a UE identity option 2 .

The smallest unit of a D2D SRS transmission opportunity can be equal to the smallest unit of a legacy LTE SRS transmission opportunity. In a 3GPP LTE system the smallest unit of an SRS transmission opportunity can be once per two uplink subframes for an FDD system e.g. once per 2 ms . While for a TDD system the smallest unit of SRS transmission can be twice per five subframes e.g. twice per 5 ms .

For an example of implicit determination of the muted opportunity option 2 the UEs can implicitly determine which one of the multiple consecutive type 0 D2D SRS transmission opportunities is muted according to pseudo random sequence Iinitialized by the UE identity which can be represented by Equation 1.

The pseudo random sequence c i for subframe index i is defined in a LTE system parameter T is the D2D SRS muting pattern periodicity and Index T is a periodicity index. The pseudo random sequence generator can be initialized with

Aperiodic D2D SRS triggering can use a D RNTI assigned to the D2D capable UEs or a set A of C RNTIs assigned to the D2D capable UEs. The use of the D RNTI and the set A of C RNTIs can be used for the aperiodic D2D SRS transmissions and also other types of beacon signals e.g. preamble type for the purpose of a discovery.

The D RNTI can be assigned to UEs that may be close to each other based on some location information such as from a global positioning system GPS an observed time difference of arrival OTDOA a cell ID a WiFi access point AP or another location mechanism or service. One or more bit fields in a DCI can be used to indicate the UE to transmit the aperiodic D2D SRS. The indicated UE can transmit the D2D SRS and other UEs may perform the detection of the D2D SRS from the intended UE for device discovery. A device specific search space for D RNTI can be defined based on a function of D RNTI or alternatively transmitted on common search space CSS . In legacy LTE a device specific search space e.g. UE specific search space is defined based on C RNTI. For common search spaces Yis set to 0 for the two aggregation levels L 4 and L 8. For a UE specific search space Sat aggregation level L the variable Yis defined by Y A Y mod D where Y D 0 A 39827 D 65537 and k n 2 nis the slot number within a radio frame. The RNTI value used for Dcan be the D RNTI.

If the DCI with D RNTI is transmitted in common search space the DCI may not schedule any data e.g. PUSCH or PUSCH . Some fields for scheduling like the resource allocation can be reserved and used for aperiodic D2D SRS triggering for backward compatibility. For example in a case that the aperiodic D2D SRS triggering for device discovery is used the UEs can assume that no data is scheduled for the same time frequency resource as a D2D SRS so the PUSCH and the D2D SRS from different UEs do not collide.

Detecting the DCI with the D RNTI can reduce the power consumption in the UE receiver. For example the control region e.g. PDCCH of each serving cell can include a set of CCEs. Allowing the eNodeB to place a DCI anywhere in the PDCCH resources can require the UE to make many PDCCH decoding attempts in every subframe and can lead to excessive power consumption in the UE receiver. So in the LTE system to avoid or reduce excessive PDCCH decoding attempts a limited set of CCE locations where a PDCCH may be placed in a search space can be defined for each UE and each search space e.g. D2D search space can be determined by a UE RNTI e.g. D RNTI value and shared by a group of D2D UEs and a subframe index.

In another aperiodic D2D SRS triggering example the network can configure a set A of C RNTIs to the UEs which may be close to each other based on some location information such as from the GPS OTDOA Cell ID WiFi AP or another location mechanism or service. For example if the network triggers aperiodic D2D SRS for a C RNTI 0 the UE within the set A with the C RNTI 0 can transmit the D2D SRS. The other UEs within the set A with other C RNTIs can detect the D2D SRS from the UE with the C RNTI 0. In order not to increase blind decoding complexity for UEs using the set A with other C RNTIs the DCI transmission in an example can be restricted to common search space. Some fields for scheduling like the resource allocation can be reserved and used for aperiodic D2D SRS triggering for backward compatibility. For example in case that the aperiodic D2D SRS triggering for device discovery is used the UEs can assume that no data is scheduled for the same time frequency resource as a D2D SRS so the PUSCH and the D2D SRS from different UEs do not collide.

After aperiodic D2D SRS triggering and or D2D SRS detection the UE can feedback related D2D SRS relevant information including a D2D SRS subframe index a frequency location a comb index and or cyclic shift CS value to the node.

With the overview of device discovery signal design part 1 the device discovery signaling can be used in signaling procedures for device discovery part 2 . illustrates some principles applied to resource allocation of a device discovery signal. For example the eNB can broadcast to a UE a cell specific D2D SRS resources configuration in the SIB information which can be dependent on a cell specific SRS configuration. D2D SRS resources can be flexibly configured to occupy a subset as shown in of cell specific SRS resources. The number of downlink subframes of the subset can be configurable depending on the number of D2D users.

An example information element for cell specific D2D SRS resources configuration e.g. D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigCommon is illustrated in . Field descriptions for D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigCommon can include srs BandwidthConfig srs Bandwidth srs SubframeConfig transmission Comb CyclicShift and SRS PowerConfig. The srs BandwidthConfig can indicate the full bandwidth for D2D SRS transmission of the whole cell. The srs Bandwidth can indicate the bandwidth for a single D2D SRS transmission and reception. The srs SubframeConfig can indicate the cell specific D2D SRS resources by jointly coding the periodicity and offset value. The transmissionComb can indicate the cell specific D2D SRS resources configuration in the comb domain. The CyclicShift can indicate the cell specific D2D SRS resources configuration in the cyclic shift domain. The SRS PowerConfig can indicate the transmission power for D2D SRS. The SRS PowerConfig value maybe implicitly configured by one to one mapping between srs Bandwidth and SRS PowerConfig.

Referring back to the UE supporting D2D communication can transmit or transfer the UE s capability i.e. UE s capability information of D2D communication to the eNB via RRC signaling. D2D communication can supported as an optional UE capability in advanced LTE devices such as devices supporting LTE Rel 12 and subsequent releases. A D2D enabling UE can include a baseband modem for decoding and or detecting SC FDMA waveforms typically used in uplink channels at the receiver which functionality may not be supported by legacy LTE UEs such as devices supporting LTE Rel 11 and earlier releases.

In an example the eNB can keep capabilities during RRC CONNECTED state and build one UERadioAccessCapabilityInformation message consisting of known capabilities excluding the UTRAN capability . The UE capabilities including D2D support can then be uploaded to the mobility management entity MME and or packet data network gateway PDN GW or PDN GW via a S1 application protocol S1 AP or S1AP UE capability information indication e.g. UE CAPABILITY INFO INDICATION message to enable the D2D communication between eNBs of serving neighboring cells.

The MME can keep the capabilities until a S1 AP DETACH or ATTACH message . The PDN GW can be used to detect the potential D2D traffic whose tunnel endpoint identifiers are the same or assigned to neighboring eNBs since the PDN GW can process the IP headers of the data packets and tunnel headers. Thus the PDN GW can determine by which eNB a UE is served. Since the MME and or PDN GW can retain the UE s capability information D2D communication can be alternatively triggered by the eNB instead of by D2D capability of UEs after the eNB has received the D2D enabling type of message from PDN GW.

Separate IEs in the RRC signal for UE D2D resources allocation information for discovery can be used to transfer the UE specific LTE type 0 and type 1 D2D SRS configurable parameters e.g. periodic and aperiodic D2D SRS configurable parameters respectively from the network e.g. eNB and or MME to the UE . illustrates a RRC IE D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigDedicated r12 for periodic type 0 D2D SRS transmissions and a RRC IE D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigDedicatedAperiodic r12. The parameters in D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigDedicated r12 can be applicable for a LTE type 0 D2D SRS transmission while the parameters in D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigDedicatedAperiodic r12 can be applicable for a LTE type 1 D2D SRS transmission. Field descriptions for D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigDedicated r12 and or D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigDedicatedAperiodic r12 can include freqDomainPosition srs ConfigIndex transmissionComb CyclicShift Srs Muting ConfigIndex D RNTI and Group Index. The freqDomainPosition can indicate the frequency domain position for the periodic and aperiodic sounding reference signal SRS transmission respectively. The srs ConfigIndex can indicate the Iparameter for the periodic and aperiodic sounding reference signal SRS transmission respectively. The transmissionComb can indicate the 0 1 parameter for the periodic and aperiodic sounding reference signal SRS transmission respectively. The CyclicShift can indicate the n SRS parameter for the periodic and aperiodic sounding reference signal SRS transmission respectively where cs0 corresponds to 0 and so on. The Srs Muting ConfigIndex can indicate the muting type 1 D2D SRS configuration for the periodic sounding reference SRS signal transmission. The D RNTI can indicate the RNTI for aperiodic D2D SRS group triggering using specific DCI format for D2D communication. The Group Index can indicate the index of the UE sharing a single D RNTI within a D2D SRS group.

The UE can scan detect and or decode the D2D SRS resources at each cell specific D2D SRS opportunity for either type 0 or type 1 D2D SRS and then feedback the detected SRS resources to the eNB for a device discovery report purpose not shown in . For example illustrates an example abstract syntax notation one ASN.1 code for a feedback IE SRSDetectedReport.

If the eNB has already determined the number of UEs to be detected before discovery the eNB can signal the UE specific SRS parameter via dedicated RRC signaling also not shown in . The UEs can scan detect and or decode the configured SRS resources instead of detecting all D2D resources at each cell specific D2D SRS opportunity. The configured SRS resource to be detected can be defined as detectable SRS resource e.g. IE D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigDedicatedAperiodic r12 as illustrated in . In another example some of the parameters can be omitted if the parameter is not necessary. For example if frequency hopping is not supported for SRS in D2D operation srs HoppingBandwidth may not be included in the IE D2D SoundingRS UL ConfigDedicatedAperiodic r12 illustrated in .

After the UE measures the detectable SRS the UE can feedback the detected SRS resources. The same feedback IE illustrated in can be used. Alternatively IE srs ConfigIndex can be reported if the received signal quality of SRS is larger than a threshold as illustrated in .

Alternatively as shown in a UE can initiate a device discovery process or procedure when the UE desires to discover other UEs in proximity to the UE. For example the UE can send a device discovery request to the eNB via RRC signaling. The UE can scan the cell specific D2D SRS subframes for device discovery e.g. D2D SRS signal detection . The eNB can trigger e.g. type 1 D2D SRS triggering the proximity D2D UEs to commence type 1 D2D SRS transmitting 328 on a first UE specific D2D SRS subframe. The UE feedback the detected D2D SRS information to eNB e.g. D2D SRS resources detected feedback .

In another example as shown in the UE can initiate the device discovery process or procedure when UE wants to discover other UEs in proximity to the UE. The UE can send a device discovery request to the eNB via RRC signaling. The eNB can send the configured SRS resources of proximity UEs to the UE e.g. by sending the D2D Detectable SoundingRS UL ConfigDedicatedfist . The UE can scan the cell specific D2D SRS subframes for device discovery e.g. D2D SRS signal detection . The eNB can trigger e.g. type 1 D2D SRS triggering the proximity D2D UEs to commence type 1 D2D SRS transmitting 328 on a first UE specific D2D SRS subframe. The UE feedback the detected D2D SRS information to eNB e.g. D2D SRS resources detected feedback .

Another example provides a method for device discovery using a device to device D2D sounding reference signal SRS as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving D2D SRS configuration information from an evolved Node B eNB at a user equipment UE as in block . The operation of sending UE capability information to the eNB follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be receiving D2D SRS resources allocation information from the eNB as in block . The operation of scanning configured D2D SRS resources at the UE based on the D2D SRS resources allocation information follows as in block . The method can further include sending feedback of detected D2D SRS resources to the eNB as in block .

The operation of scanning the configured D2D SRS resource can further include scanning D2D SRS resources at each cell specific D2D SRS opportunity. A periodicity and index of subframes for D2D SRS can be derived from a cell specific subframe offset for the transmission of D2D SRS or an upper limit of a cell specific subframe configuration period to avoid a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH interference. D2D SRS configuration information can include a cell specific periodic D2D SRS periodicity at least two times greater than a cell specific SRS periodicity. In an example the method can further include transmitting a D2D SRS on fixed frequency domain resources where frequency hopping on the D2D SRS is disabled.

In another example the operation of receiving the D2D SRS resources allocation information can further include receiving via radio resource control RRC signaling a D2D SRS muting pattern including one selected SRS transmission opportunity to be muted in a repeated pattern of multiple consecutive UE specific periodic D2D SRS transmissions in a D2D subframe while the remaining periodic D2D SRS transmissions are transmitted. Each co located D2D UE can use a different SRS transmission opportunity in the time domain. The method can further include transmitting a D2D SRS on the SRS transmission opportunity allocated to the UE.

In another configuration the operation of scanning the configured D2D SRS resources can further include implicitly generating a D2D SRS muting pattern including one selected SRS transmission opportunity to be muted in a repeated pattern of multiple consecutive UE specific periodic D2D SRS transmission in a D2D subframe while the remaining periodic D2D SRS transmissions are transmitted. Muted SRS transmissions in the time domain for each co located D2D UE can be implicitly generated using a pseudo random sequence initialized by a UE identity and the pseudo random sequence can be based on a D2D SRS muting pattern periodicity and periodicity index. The method can further include transmitting a D2D SRS on the SRS transmission opportunity allocated to the UE.

In another example the operation of receiving the D2D SRS resources allocation information can further include receiving via a system information block SIB a transmission power for a D2D SRS. The method can further include transmitting a D2D SRS with the transmission power. In another configuration the operation of receiving the D2D SRS resources allocation information can further include receiving a D2D SRS bandwidth for the D2D SRS. The method can further include Implicitly determining a D2D SRS transmission power based on the D2D SRS bandwidth where a one to one mapping exists between the D2D SRS bandwidth and the D2D SRS transmission power and transmitting a D2D SRS with the D2D SRS transmission power.

In another example a D2D SRS bandwidth for the configured D2D SRS resources can use a single physical resource block PRB . The operation of receiving the D2D SRS resources allocation information can further include receiving UE specific periodic SRS configuration information via radio resource control RRC signaling. The UE specific periodic SRS configuration information can include a cyclic shift value a frequency domain location a transmission comb a subframe index and a periodicity.

In another configuration the operation of receiving the D2D SRS resources allocation information can further include receiving via dedicated radio resource control RRC signaling a limited number of UE specific D2D SRS resources to be detected for a specified number of UEs. The operation of scanning the configured D2D SRS resources can further include scanning the limited number of UE specific D2D SRS resources. The D2D SRS configuration information can include a bandwidth for D2D SRS transmission for a cell a bandwidth for a single D2D SRS transmission and reception cell specific D2D SRS resources periodicity cell specific D2D SRS resources offset value cell specific D2D SRS resources configuration in a comb domain cell specific D2D SRS resources configuration in a cyclic shift CS domain or a transmission power for the D2D SRS. The D2D SRS resources allocation information can include configurable parameters for a periodic D2D SRS transmission configurable parameters for an aperiodic D2D SRS transmission a frequency domain position a SRS configuration index a transmission comb a cyclic shift CS a SRS muting configuration index a discovery radio network temporary identifier D RNTI a group index of the UE sharing the D RNTI a cell radio network temporary identifier C RNTI a specified set number of C RNTI for D2D UEs in proximity to each other a detectable SRS index a bandwidth for D2D SRS transmission for a cell or a frequency hopping bandwidth for a D2D SRS transmission. The feedback of the detected D2D SRS resources can include a frequency domain position time domain position a transmission comb or a cyclic shift CS .

In another example the operation of scanning the configured D2D SRS resources uses a D2D SRS muting pattern based on a muting offset and a muting periodicity configured via radio resource control RRC signaling and the muting offset and the muting periodicity determine a D2D SRS opportunity to scan. In another configuration the operation of scanning the configured D2D SRS resources uses an implicit pseudo random sequence based on a periodicity periodicity index and UE identity to determine a D2D SRS opportunity to scan. In another example the operation of receiving D2D SRS configuration information uses a system information block SIB and sending UE capability information and receiving D2D SRS resources allocation information uses radio resource control RRC signaling.

The wireless device and proximity wireless device can include a transceiver module and and a processing module and . The wireless device can be configured to communicate directly with the proximity wireless device via D2D communication protocols. The wireless device can be configured for configured for device discovery via a node using a device to device D2D sounding reference signal SRS . The transceiver module can be configured to Send a radio resource control RRC device discovery request to a node scan D2D SRS subframes of proximity UEs using D2D SRS triggering where a proximity UE is located within a same cell as the UE and send feedback to the node of detected D2D SRS information of the proximity UEs.

In an example the transceiver module and can be further configured to receive configured SRS resource information of proximity UEs from the node before a scan of D2D SRS subframes of proximity UEs. The configured SRS resources information can includes a radio resource control RRC information element IE D2D Detectable SoundingRS UL ConfigDedicatedList that includes a frequency domain position a SRS configuration index a transmission comb a cyclic shift CS a detectable SRS index a bandwidth for D2D SRS transmission for a cell or a frequency hopping bandwidth for a D2D SRS transmission. The detected D2D SRS information can include a feedback information element IE SRSDetectedReport that includes a frequency domain position time domain position a transmission comb or a cyclic shift CS .

In another example the transceiver module and can be further configured to transmit D2D SRS subframes to proximity UEs based on downlink control information DCI for D2D SRS triggering from the node. A DCI format size for the DCI can be extended to a same size as a legacy DCI by adding padding bits. In another configuration the transceiver module can be further configured to trigger an aperiodic e.g. long term evolution LTE type 1 D2D SRS transmission for a group of D2D UEs based on a group specific discovery radio network temporary identifier D RNTI and an exclusive group index of the UE included in downlink control information DCI . A DCI format for the DCI can be scrambled with the group specific D RNTI and each D2D UE in the group is allocated an exclusive group index to uniquely identify each D2D UE using the D RNTI.

In another example the D2D SRS triggering further includes triggering a D2D SRS transmission by a downlink control information DCI with CRC scrambled by discovery radio network temporary identifier D RNTI based on location information of the UEs in proximity to each other and a group index provided by higher layer signaling that determines the index to the D2D SRS triggering for the UE sharing the same D RNTI with other UEs. The processing module and can be configured to detect the DCI for D2D SRS triggering by monitoring a set of physical downlink control channel PDCCH candidates in a device specific search space which is determined by the D RNTI or in a common search space CSS in each downlink subframe.

In another configuration the D2D SRS triggering uses aperiodic D2D SRS triggering using a specified set of cell radio network temporary identifiers C RNTIs based on location information of the UEs in proximity to each other. The transceiver module and can be further configured to scan a D2D SRS transmitted from a specified C RNTI in the specified set.

In another configuration device to device D2D communication can be improved using a channel measurement group. A factor to improve D2D communication system efficiency and to reduce interference in support of different time division duplexing TDD uplink downlink UL DL configurations can include fetching the channel status information among the UEs by the communication system. illustrates an example of D2D radio resource sharing between two D2D pairs e.g. UEand UE and UEand UE inside of one cell e.g. home cell to optimize the overall system performance using D2D control and data links along with legacy uplink and downlink with the eNB control and data links. The D2D control and data links used for the D2D pairs may share spectrum resources. The value of resourcing sharing can be determined by the specific spatial multiplexing used in D2D communication and to the degree interference is controlled when the radio resource is shared between D2D resources. The channel loss or other details of channel information among the related UEs e.g. 4 UEs in can be measured and collected to determine interference generated and the value of resourcing sharing.

The shows another example of radio resource sharing between D2D UEs e.g. UEand UE and an eNB UE e.g. UEfor uplink or downlink to support the usage of a D2D scenario for interference control and better system performance. The D2D control and data links used for the D2D pairs may share spectrum resources with legacy control and data links. The channel status information including at least the channel loss among three related UEs can be measured and collected to determine interference generated and the value of using resource sharing between legacy resources and D2D resources.

In legacy LTE UE may not have a mechanism to measure and report the channel information for UE to UE links. An efficient architecture for supporting D2D link measurements can be designed to reuse the existing sounding reference signals SRS for D2D communication which can be used on advanced UEs e.g. UEs using LTE Rel 12 and later versions .

First the details for the architecture and mechanism for UEs to measure and report the channel information is presented which architecture and mechanism can be used for D2D mode selection and interference control. Then an example using the channel information for D2D communication is presented.

In an example the UEs can be configured to measure other UEs in a same group referred to as a channel measurement group CMG . The CMG allows the UEs to measure the channel status among each other. The CMG can refer to any process system or mechanism functioning in a similar manner as the processes and systems described herein. The channel measurement croup CMG can include a set of UEs that may perform the channel status measurement among each other. The channel measurement group identity CMGID or CMG ID can provide the identity for channel measurement group. Processes for CMG management can include a new CMG creating procedure a procedure for adding UE s into an existing CMG previously created CMG and a procedure for removing UE s from a CMG. The processes can relate to CMG management and related messages definition presented for creating the CMG and adding and releasing UE s .

Referring back to after the candidate UEs receive the NewCMGInitialRequest message from the eNB for the CMG creating request each candidate UE can evaluate the UE s capacity to support the operations related to the new CMG then reply with a new CMG creating response message BLOCK of such as a NewCMGInitialResponse message illustrated in back to the eNB so the eNB can make a decision to create the CMG. The NewCMGInitialResponse field descriptions can include cmgID or cmgExecutionAllowed. The cmgID can indicate the identity for the CMG to be created. The cmgExecutionAllowed can indicate a Boolean value where TRUE indicates that the UE can support CMG related operations such as channel measurement among the reporting UEs in the CMG and FALSE indicates that the UE is not able to support the CMG operation.

The eNB can collect the information from the NewCMGInitialResponse messages from the replying candidate UEs then generate a UE list for the CMG by sending a unicast or multicast CMG configuration message BLOCK of such as a CMGConfigUpdate message illustrated in that can include information to support CMG related operations. The CMGConfigUpdate message can include legacy referenced ASN.1 definitions for IEs PhysicalConfigDedicated and C RNTI.

For example the IE PhysicalConfigDedicated can be used to specify the UE specific physical channel configuration. The IE C RNTI can identify a UE having a RRC connection within a cell. The CMGConfigUpdate message field descriptions can include cmgID CMGConfig monitoringUeInfoList measurementReportInterval or measurementReportType. The cmgID can indicate the identity for the CMG to be created. The CMGConfig can indicate the configuration structure for the UE to perform CMG operations. The monitoringUeInfoList can indicate the list of UE information for channel measurement and reporting. The measurementReportInterval can indicate the interval of a periodic report of channel measurement result to the eNB. The measurementReportType can indicate the channel measurement result type for reporting. The MonitoringUeInfo field descriptions can include uescheduledC RNTI or uePhysicalConfigDedicated. The uescheduledC RNTI can indicate the identity for the UE in the cell. The uePhysicalConfigDedicated can specify the UE specific physical channel configuration.

After the candidate UEs receive the CMGJoinRequest message from the eNB each candidate UE can evaluate the UE s capacity to support the operations related to the CMG then reply with a CMG joining response message BLOCK in such as a NewCMGInitialResponse message illustrated in back to the eNB so the eNB can make a decision to add the UE to the CMG.

The eNB can collect the information from the NewCMGInitialResponse messages from the replying candidate UEs for joining the CMG then generate an updated UE list for the CMG by sending a unicast or multicast CMG new configuration message BLOCK of such as a CMGConfigUpdate message illustrated in that can include information to support CMG related operations.

After the candidate UEs receive the CMGRemovingRequest message from the eNB each candidate UE can reply with a CMG removing response message for confirmation BLOCK in such as a CMGRemoveResponse message illustrated in back to eNB. The CMGRemoveResponse field descriptions can include cmgID. The cmgID can indicate the identity for CMG to be removed for candidate UE. After sending the CMGRemoveResponse message the UE s can stop all operations related to the CMG.

After the eNB received the confirmation CMGRemoveResponse messages from the candidate UEs then the eNB can update the new UE list in the CMG by sending a CMG configuration message BLOCK in such as the CMGConfigUpdate illustrated in that can include information to support CMG related operations.

After definitions of a CMG related procedure an operation supported by CMG can be a D2D channel status information measurement and reporting to the eNB for device to device channels. In an example the SRS with configuration information included in the IE uePhysicalConfigDedicated can be used for channel measurement for D2D links. The measurement and report of channel status information can include a received SRS signal strength e.g. a reference signal received power RSRP measured as dBm and or reference signal received quality RSRQ measured as dB . Other channel information may be included in the channel status information report by extending the message format directly.

The reporting of measurement channel information such as channel pathloss may use at least two alternative solutions such as a media access control MAC control IE or a RRC message. illustrates a MAC control IE for RSRP RSRQ reporting. The MAC control IE can include a UE transmission power CMG ID C RNTI RSRP and or RSRQ using configuration bits e.g. C0 to C7 in an octal grouping e.g. oct 1 to oct 6 where R represents a reserve bit. In an example the MAC control IE can use a reporting range for RSRP defined from 140 dBm to 22 with a 1.5 dB resolution as shown in Table 2. Table 2 illustrates an example of reference signal received power RSRP measurement report mapping of the measured quantity. The reported RSRP value can be represented by 6 configuration bits e.g. 2 up to 128 values . In an example the range in the signaling may be larger than a guaranteed accuracy range.

The number of resource elements within a considered measurement frequency bandwidth and within a measurement period that can be used by the UE to determine RSRP can be determined by the UE implementation as long as the corresponding measurement accuracy requirements are met.

In another example the MAC control IE can use a reporting range for RSRQ defined from 19.5 dB to 3 dB with a 0.25 dB resolution as shown in Table 3. Table 3 illustrates an example of reference signal received quality RSRQ measurement report mapping of measured quantity. In an example the range in the signaling may be larger than a guaranteed accuracy range.

Another example provides a method for using a channel measurement group CMG for a device discovery device to device D2D operation as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. A user equipment UE in a channel measurement group CMG operable for device discovery using a device to device D2D sounding reference signal SRS can have computer circuitry to perform the method . The computer circuitry can be configured to receive a CMG request message including a CMG identifier CMGID from an evolved Node B eNB as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to send a CMG response message including the CMGID to the eNB based on the CMG request message as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to perform a CMG D2D operation as in block .

In an example the computer circuitry configured to perform the CMG D2D can be further configured to Receive D2D SRS configuration information for the CMG from the eNB measure a signal strength or a signal quality of a D2D SRS based on the D2D SRS configuration information generate a channel status report for a D2D link between a UE pair based on a measurement of the D2D SRS where the UE pair includes the UE and another UE in the CMG and send the channel status report to the eNB. The channel status report can uses a medium access control MAC information element IE or a radio resource control RRC information element IE . The MAC IE can include a UE transmission power of the SRS a CMG identifier ID a measurement range of the SRS or cell radio network temporary identifier C RNTI for the UE that transmits the SRS. The RRC IE can include a SRS transmission power a CMG identifier ID a sounding reference signal received power RSRP measurement range of the SRS a sounding reference signal received quality RSRQ measurement range of the SRS or C RNTI for the UE that transmits the SRS.

In another example the CMG request message can include a new CMG creating request message to create a new CMG and the CMG response message can include a new CMG creating response message indicating whether the UE has capability to support CMG operations and the CMG D2D operation can include the receiving D2D SRS configuration information for the CMG from the eNB.

In another configuration the CMG request message can include a CMG joining request message to add the UE to an existing CMG and the CMG response message can include a CMG joining response message indicating whether the UE has capacity to support CMG operations and the CMG D2D operation can include receiving updated D2D SRS configuration information for the CMG from the eNB.

In another example the CMG request message can include a CMG removing request message to remove the UE from the CMG and the CMG response message can include a CMG removing response message indicating the UE has received the CMG removing request message and the CMG D2D operation can include ceasing operations related to the CMG.

In another configuration the CMG request message can include a CMG response duration timer value to receive a response and the CMG D2D operation can include receiving D2D SRS configuration information for the CMG including CMG information such as a list of cell radio network temporary identifiers C RNTIs for UEs in the CMGs a UE specific channel configuration a measurement report interval or a measurement report type.

Referring back to the node or the node device can be configured for device discovery using a device to device D2D sounding reference signal SRS in a channel measurement group CMG including a plurality of user equipments UEs . The processing module can be configured to Generate a CMG identifier CMGID for a CMG and determine a UE pair available for D2D communication by calculating a channel pathloss in a D2D link between the UE pair from a channel status report. The transceiver module can be configured to Transmit D2D SRS configuration information to the UEs in the CMG to measure a D2D SRS and receive the channel status report based on measurements of a D2D SRS.

In an example the measurements of the D2D SRS can include a sounding reference signal received power RSRP or a sounding reference signal received quality RSRQ . The channel status report can use a medium access control MAC information element IE or a radio resource control RRC information element IE . The MAC IE can include a UE transmission power of the SRS a CMG identifier ID a measurement range or cell radio network temporary identifier C RNTI for the UE that transmits the SRS. The RRC IE can include a SRS transmission power a CMG identifier ID a sounding reference signal received power RSRP measurement range a sounding reference signal received quality RSRQ measurement range or C RNTI for the UE that transmits the SRS.

In another example the transceiver module can be further configured to Send a new CMG creating request message including a CMGID and a CMG response duration timer value to receive a response and receive a new CMG creating response message including a CMGID and a CMG execute allowed Boolean value. The D2D SRS configuration information can includes a list of UE cell radio network temporary identifiers C RNTIs in the CMGs a UE specific channel configuration a measurement report interval or a measurement report type.

In another configuration the transceiver module is further configured to Send a CMG joining request message including a CMGID to be added to the UE a CMG response duration timer value to receive a response and a count of UEs in the CMG and receive a CMG joining response message including the CMGID and a CMG execute allowed value. The processing module is further configured to Add a UE to the CMG with an affirmative CMG joining response message.

In another example the transceiver module is further configured to Send a CMG removing request message including a CMGID to be removed for the UE and a CMG response duration timer value to receive a response and receive a CMG removing response message including the CMGID. The processing module is further configured to Stop operations related to the CMG when a CMG removing response message is received.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

