---

title: Location based decryption
abstract: Described herein are systems, devices and methods for decrypting content based on location. A media device may decrypt content based on determination of a location-based decryption event. The location-based decryption event may include the media device being located within a location previously defined as authorized to decrypt the content. The location-based decryption event may also include the media device being located within a predetermined distance of a designated reference object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330275&OS=09330275&RS=09330275
owner: AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09330275
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130328
---
Media devices such as tablets and smartphones may often provide access to certain confidential information. To improve information security confidential information may be encrypted. However after a decryption key is obtained and the confidential information is accessed an adversarial user may attempt to compromise the confidential information. For example the adversarial user may copy the confidential information or transmit the confidential information to an unauthorized third party. Accordingly a need exists for the further development of information security systems.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for controlling encryption of content on media devices based on location. Location may be referred to as the position of the media device in space. The position may include a geographic location geolocation such as latitude and longitude altitude particular street address and so forth. The location may be specified by a geofence such as a set of coordinates designating a boundary or distance from a designated geographic point. The position may also include a relative position within so many feet of a designated reference object which may be placed somewhere such as within a conference room and so forth. The media device may be determined to be at or in an authorized location when within the geofence a particular distance from the designated geographic point the relative position and so forth.

Based on a determination of a location based decryption event the media device may decrypt at least a portion of encrypted content and present the decrypted content to a user of the media device. In some implementations based on a determination of an encryption event the media device terminates the presentation of the decrypted content. The location may be determined using a location sensor such as a satellite based navigation system inertial navigation dead reckoning and so forth.

The location based decryption event may include a variety of events. In one implementation the location based decryption event may include the media device being located in an authorized location. The authorized location may be described as a location such as a portion of space within a building or other structure separated by walls or partitions from other parts. The authorized location may also be described as area defined by latitudes and longitudes. In some implementations the media device is unable to receive the cryptographic key unless the media device is located within the authorized location. The authorized location may be designated or selected by the user. Conversely certain locations described herein may be referred to as unauthorized locations. In some implementations because the media device is located in an unauthorized location the media device may not be able to receive the cryptographic key.

In another implementation the location based decryption event includes the media device being located within a predetermined distance from a designated reference object. The designated reference object may include at least one of a communication device a server a near field communication tag or other device. The cryptographic key may be received from the designated reference object. The encrypted content may be received from the designated reference object. In some implementations another media device may operate as the designated reference object.

The encryption event may include a variety of events. The encryption event may include a change in the location of the media device. For example the encryption event may include the media device not located within the authorized location. Other encryption events are discussed in detail below. Based on the determination of the encryption event the media device may terminate the presentation of decrypted content.

In some implementations the media device includes one or more location sensors configured to generate location data. The location data may include geolocation data which is indicative of a latitude and longitude of the media device. The location sensor may also determine the location of the media device using an inertial navigation system dead reckoning navigation system or other techniques.

The media device may receive the encrypted content before determining the location based decryption event. In other implementations the media device receives the encrypted content after determining the location based decryption event.

In some implementations the media device receives at least one annotation e.g. a note or a comment associated with the decrypted content. In some implementations after the determination of the encryption event the media device encrypts any annotation received.

An information processing system e.g. a server may be configured to receive a request for encrypted content and transmit to the media device at least a portion of the encrypted content. In some implementations based on a determination of a location based decryption event the information processing system transmits to the media device a cryptographic key which is used to decrypt encrypted content. In some implementations the information processing system operates with an input device to enable a user to designate the reference object.

The media devices D are configured to present store manipulate or otherwise participate in the consumption of content. The media devices D may include a variety of devices such as a mobile digital device a smartphone a tablet computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a television an electronic book eBook reader a gaming console a set top box a media player an in vehicle communication system and so forth. In some implementations the media devices D may be referred to as an information processing system or an information processing device. The media devices D are discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The network facilitating communication between the media devices D and the server may include a variety of networks such as a local network a wide area network WAN broadcast network a personal area network a wired and wireless local area network LAN and so forth. In some implementations the network includes at least one of Bluetooth as promulgated by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group Ethernet Wi Fi as promulgated by the Wi Fi Alliance 3G and 4G and so forth. The devices and systems described herein may be configured to directly connect to each other. The system may include additional servers which communicate with the media devices and the server .

The server may communicate with a large number of the media devices D . Accordingly the server may be a high end computer with large storage capacity fast microprocessors and high speed network connections. Conversely relative to a typical server each media device D may have less storage capacity processors and network connections. In some implementations the server may be referred to as an information processing system or an information processing device. The server is discussed in more detail below with regard to .

Referring to the server transmits encrypted content to the first media device and the second media device . The transmission of the encrypted content may be initiated by the media devices D the server or another device. For example where a meeting is scheduled to occur in the future a user such as an administrator may direct the server to deploy encrypted content to the media devices and before the scheduled meeting. The users and are unable to decrypt the encrypted content without a cryptographic key preventing access. In this example the first media device and the second media device receive and store the encrypted content from the server . The first media device receives a request from the first user to access the encrypted content which is stored by the first media device .

Based on the received request from the first user a location determination module determines a location of the first media device by generating location data indicative of the position of the first media device . In this example the location determination module determines that the first media device is located within the location .

The location determination module may be configured to determine the location of the media device based on one or more systems. These systems may include an inertial navigation system dead reckoning navigation systems satellite based navigation network positioning tags and so forth.

The inertial navigation system may employ sensors such as acceleration sensors motion sensors and rotation sensors to calculate the position of the media device based on integration of these motions relative to a reference point. The dead reckoning navigation system may determine the location of the media device by integrating compass headings and estimated stride lengths of the user to determine displacement from a reference point. The satellite based navigation system may use signals provided at least in part by orbital satellites to generate the location of the receiver which may be in the media device. Network positioning may involve interrogating one or more cellular network access points to determine position based at least in part on radio frequency signal strength association of a network address or access point with a previously determined location and so forth.

The location determination module may also determine the location of the media device by receiving information from one or more location tags in the environment which are indicative of the location of the media device. Location tags may include radio frequency identification RFID optical code tags near field communication NFC tags acoustic tags and so forth.

The location determination module provides data indicative of the location of the media device. For example the data may include geolocation data such as latitude and longitude of the media device a street address room designation and so forth.

In one implementation based on the location of the first media device a location based decryption event module determines an occurrence of a location based decryption event. In this implementation the location based decryption event includes the media device being located within a predetermined or an authorized location. In this example because the first media device is located in the location which has been previously authorized to allow for decryption of the encrypted content the location based decryption event module determines an occurrence of the location based decryption event.

In some implementations the server enables an administrator or other user to designate at least one authorized location . The location may be authorized for one or more pieces of the encrypted content . The authorized location may include any suitable location such as a portion of space within a building or other structure. The location may or may not be separated by walls or partitions from other parts. The authorized location may include an area defined by one or more points specified by latitude and longitude relative position and so forth.

Based on the occurrence of the location based decryption event the first media device transmits to the server a request for the cryptographic key which may be used to decrypt the encrypted content at the authorized location .

Based on the transmitted request for the cryptographic key a cryptographic key generation module generates or retrieves the cryptographic key . In some implementations the cryptographic key generation module generates the cryptographic key using a random or pseudo random number generator. In different implementations the generation of the cryptographic key is predetermined randomly determined determined based on an algorithm or determined based on any other suitable method or criteria. In some implementations the cryptographic key is already generated. The server may be configured to select and transmit the previously generated cryptographic key to the media device .

The cryptographic key may include any suitable type of key. The cryptographic key may be described as data that is applied to a string or a block of data to decrypt encrypted data. In some implementations the cryptographic key is applied to a string or block of unencrypted data to encrypt the content. The cryptographic key may also be configured to be based at least in part on information from the location determination module . For example the cryptographic key may use information received from one or more Global Positioning System satellites. The cryptographic key may include a shared key a public private key and so forth. The cryptographic key may be configured to be valid for a limited period of time or for a limited scope of use.

Referring to the server transmits the generated cryptographic key to the first media device . The first media device receives the cryptographic key . Based on the received cryptographic key a decryption module decrypts the encrypted content . A presentation module presents the decrypted content. For example ABC is presented to the user visually with a display device of the first media device .

An encryption event module is configured to determine an occurrence of an encryption event. Based on the occurrence of the encryption event the presentation module is configured to terminate the presentation of the decrypted content. For example if the user moves the first media device outside the authorized location an encryption event occurs and the presentation module may terminate the presentation of decrypted content. Other encryption events are discussed below.

The termination of the presentation of the decrypted content in response to the occurrence of the encryption event may help deter an adversarial user from compromising content such as confidential data. That is after the occurrence of the encryption event the user does not have decrypted access to the content and therefore is prevented from compromising the content.

In this implementation based on the determination of the encryption event an encryption module is configured to re encrypt the decrypted content. In another implementation the encryption module does not re encrypt the decrypted content. In this implementation the first media device is configured to terminate access to the cryptographic key which is being used to decrypt the encrypted content . Thus the user would be unable to access any content which was previously encrypted.

Referring to the second user has entered the location with the second media device . The location is not authorized for decryption of the encrypted content . Because the second media device is outside the authorized location the second media device is unable to access the cryptographic key and therefore the second media device cannot present decrypted content. In this example the second media device visually displays X to the user which indicates that the second media device is unable to display the encrypted content .

In this implementation the system includes a reference object . The reference object is configured to provide a physical item with which a location based decryption event may be associated. For example the reference object may include at least one of a communication device a server a radio frequency identification tag a near field communication tag optical code another media device or other device or artifact. The reference object may be a portable device in that it may move from one location to another. In some implementations the reference object acts as the server . For example the reference object may include the processes and modules of the server that are described herein.

The server may use the reference object to transmit at least one of the encrypted content and the cryptographic key . Based on a determination of an occurrence of the location based decryption event the media device may transmit a request for the cryptographic key to the reference object which then transmits the request for the cryptographic key to the server . Thereafter the server may transmit the cryptographic key to the reference object which then transmits the cryptographic key to the media device.

In one implementation a device designated at the reference object may be configured to present on a display a series of optical codes such as two dimensional barcodes. The media device may be equipped with cameras configured to detect these optical codes and use the data to determine the location based decryption event.

In this implementation the location based decryption event includes the first media device being within a predetermined distance from the designated reference object . The predetermined distance from the designated reference object may be specified by an administrator have a default value and so forth. For example the predetermined distance may be twenty feet. Accordingly in this example the first media device determines an occurrence of the location based encryption event based on the media device being located within twenty feet of the designated reference object . In another example the reference object may determine an occurrence of the location based encryption event based on the media device being located within the predetermined distance . The reference object may include the location based determination module . In implementations where the location information is provided by the reference object or another device the media device may omit the location based determination module .

Based on the occurrence of the location based decryption event the first media device requests the cryptographic key . The server may verify the information in the location based decryption event such as the position of the first media device . As illustrated in the server transmits the cryptographic key to the first media device and the first media device receives the cryptographic key .

In this implementation based on the cryptographic key the first media device decrypts the encrypted content . As illustrated in the first media device displays the decrypted content. For example the decrypted content ABC is presented to the user visually in the display device of the first media device .

In this implementation the encryption event module of the first media device is configured to determine an occurrence of the encryption event. In this implementation the encryption event includes determining that the first media device is not located within the predetermined distance of the designated reference object . For example in this implementation if the user were to move the first media device beyond the predetermined distance from the reference object the encryption event module would determine an occurrence of the encryption event.

Referring to the second user has not brought the second media device within the predetermined distance of the designated reference object . Because the second media device is not located within the predetermined distance of the designated reference object the second media device is unable to access the cryptographic key and therefore the second media device cannot present the decrypted content. In this example the second media device visually displays X to the user which indicates that the second media device is unable to display the encrypted content .

As above is illustrated at a fixed point in time. In this example if the first media device is carried away from the predetermined distance the first media device terminates the display of the decrypted content. Similarly when the second media device is carried within the predetermined distance the location based decryption event occurs and the second media device receives the cryptographic key and displays the decrypted content.

As shown here the first media device is located in an authorized location which also includes the reference object . The first media device is within a predetermined distance of the designated reference object . Accordingly the first media device determines an occurrence of the location based decryption event.

Based on the occurrence of the location based decryption event the first media device requests the cryptographic key . As illustrated in the server transmits the cryptographic key to the first media device which receives the cryptographic key . The decryption module uses the cryptographic key to decrypt at least a portion of the encrypted content and present the decrypted portion. For example the presentation module may present ABC on the display device of the first media device .

In this example the second media device is unable to access the cryptographic key because the second media device is outside of the authorized location and beyond the predetermined distance of the designated reference object .

Continuing the example the third media device is unable to access the cryptographic key because although the third media device is located within the authorized location the third media device is beyond the predetermined distance associated with the designated reference object . The reference object may be configured to determine its own location. When the media device requests the content or the cryptographic key the server may use the location of the reference object as verification that the media device is located within the authorized location . In one example the media device omits the location determination module and the reference object includes the location determination module . The server may use the location information determined by the reference object to determine the occurrence of the location based decryption event.

The media device includes at least one input output I O interface which enables portions of the media device e.g. the processor to communicate with other devices. The I O interface may include inter integrated circuit I2C serial peripheral interface bus SPI USB RS 232 HDMI TOSLINK Bluetooth and so forth. The at least one I O interface may be communicatively coupled to at least one I O device . In some implementations certain I O devices are physically incorporated with the media device or externally placed.

As illustrated in the at least one I O device may include one or more input devices such as location sensors a microphone and a button . The location sensor may include an inertial navigation system dead reckoning navigation system network positioning system radio position finding system satellite based navigation system an accelerometer system a gyroscope system and so forth. The satellite based system may include one or more of a Global Positioning System receiver a GLONASS receiver a Galileo receiver an Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System and so forth. The I O device may include one or more of a variety of output devices such as a display a speaker and other I O devices . The one or more display devices may include electrophoretic displays liquid crystal displays interferometric displays cholesteric displays light emitting diode displays projection displays and so forth. The other I O devices may include any of the following a camera a touch sensor and a haptic output device.

The media device may include at least one communication interface . The communication interface may be configured to provide communications between the media device and other devices such as the server routers access points other servers and so forth. The communication interface may connect to the network .

The media device may include at least one bus or other internal communications hardware or software that enables for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the media device.

As illustrated in the media device may include at least one memory or memory device . The memory may include at least one computer readable storage media CRSM . The CRSM may include at least one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium or a mechanical computer storage medium. The memory may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the media device.

The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . The OS module may be configured to manage hardware resources such the I O interface the I O device the communication interface and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processor . The memory may also store at least one of the following modules which may be executed as foreground applications background tasks daemons and so forth.

In some implementations a user interface module is configured to provide a user interface to the user using the I O devices and to accept inputs received from the I O devices . The user interface may include one or more visual audible or haptic elements. For example the user interface may be configured to provide a graphic user interface an audible user interface and so forth.

The location determination module is configured to provide location data of the media device based at least in part on information received from the one or more location sensors . The location data may include any suitable data indicative of the location of the media device. The location data may include geolocation data which is indicative of the latitude and longitude of the media device relative position such as conference hall A and so forth.

The location based decryption event module determines an occurrence of the location based decryption event. As discussed above the location based decryption event may include the media device being located within the authorized location within the predetermined distance of the designated reference object or a combination thereof.

The location based decryption event may be based on a change in a connection state of the media device. This connection state may be between the media device and the designated reference object . For example when the media device comes within radio communication range of a radio of the designated reference object the media device may change from a disconnected state to a connected state. Based on the state of the connection the location based decryption event module determines an occurrence of the location based decryption event. The connection may be initiated manually or occur automatically without intervention by the user.

In some implementations the location based decryption event further includes the media device receiving an authorized password in addition to presence at the authorized location within the predetermined distance of the designated reference object or a combination thereof. For example the user may enter into an authorized location with the media device. The media device may prompt the user to enter a password to receive access to the cryptographic key and the encrypted content .

The location based decryption event may include the media device having an authorized identification number. In addition to determining whether the media device is located in the authorized location within the predetermined distance or both the server may also determine whether the media device is an authorized media device based on an identification number associated with and stored by the media device. The identification number may be based at least in part on a media access control address serial number network identification number and so forth. For example the device serial number may be hashed and the hash may be provided to the server . The server may determine the identification number is authorized based on comparison with a previously stored list of identification numbers stored by the server cryptographic inspection and so forth.

As discussed above based on the occurrence of the location based decryption event the decryption module decrypts at least a portion of the encrypted content using the cryptographic key . For example the decryption module may convert unintelligible ciphertext back to plaintext.

The presentation module is configured to present decrypted content. The presentation module may be configured to present the decrypted content using one or more of the display device the speaker and so forth.

As discussed above in some implementations the encryption event module may determine occurrence of the encryption event. The encryption event may include occurrence of a variety of different conditions. For example the encryption event may be based at least in part on a change in a connection state of the media device with the designated reference object . The encryption event may be based on whether the media device can connect to a signal of the reference object . For example loss of signal with the reference object may result in the encryption event. When the media device connects to the signal of the reference object the media device may determine the location based decryption event.

In some implementations the encryption event includes an elapsed amount of time. For example the encryption event may include an expiration of the cryptographic key . For example the cryptographic key may be associated with an amount of time for which the cryptographic key is valid. In one example the media device is configured to present decrypted content for the amount of time for which the cryptographic key is valid. Once the cryptographic key becomes invalid the media device may no longer present the decrypted content. The media device may be configured to transmit a request for another cryptographic key once the cryptographic key is invalid. As described above the encryption event may include a change in the location of the media device.

In some implementations the location based decryption event and the encryption event are based on a time window. For example the time window may begin at a first time e.g. 2 00 p.m. and end at a second time e.g. 5 00 p.m. . For example the reference object may transmit the cryptographic key to the media device only on or after 2 00 p.m. However at 5 00 p.m. the reference object may terminate access to the cryptographic key . The reference object may be configured to enable the user to select or set the begin time and the end time of the time window.

Based on the determination of the encryption event the encryption module is configured to terminate presentation of the decrypted content by the media device. In some implementations based on the occurrence of the encryption event the encryption module re encrypts the decrypted content.

In some implementations the memory includes a datastore for storing information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion thereof may be distributed across at least one other device such as a server a network storage device and so forth. As illustrated in the datastore may include the cryptographic key the location data and the encrypted content .

As discussed above the cryptographic key may include any suitable type of key. The cryptographic key may be described as data that is applied to a string or a block of data to encrypt or decrypt encrypted data. The cryptographic key may include a shared key a public private key and so forth. The cryptographic key may be configured to be valid for a limited period of time or for a limited scope of use. For example the cryptographic key may be associated with a particular piece of encrypted content .

As discussed above the location data may include any suitable data indicative of a location. For example the location data may include geolocation data which is indicative of the latitude and longitude of the media device.

As illustrated in the encrypted content may include a variety of different types of data. The encrypted content may include audio data video data eBook data application data annotation data and other data . Content may be downloaded or streamed from the server to the media device.

The encrypted application data may include certain functions of an application or program. In one example the user is unable to perform certain functions of an application unless the user enters the authorized location with the media device. That is based on the media device being located in the authorized location the media device accesses a cryptographic key used to decrypt an encrypted function of an application.

The content disclosed herein may be stored in its entirety or a portion. For example the media device may stream content from the server such that at any given time only a portion of decrypted content is stored within the memory .

In some implementations the media device includes a chassis configured to mechanically support at least one of the processor the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interface or the memory .

The at least one I O interface is communicatively coupled to at least one I O device . In some implementations certain I O devices are physically incorporated with the server or externally placed. The at least one I O device may include a variety of input devices such as external storage environmental sensors keyboards and so forth. The I O device may include a variety of output devices such as a display printer and so forth.

The server includes at least one communication interface . The communication interface may be configured to provide communications between the server and other devices such as the media device routers access points other servers and so forth. The communication interface may connect to the network .

The server may include at least one bus or other internal communications hardware or software that enables for the transfer or data between the various modules and components of the server .

As illustrated in the server may include at least one memory or memory device . The memory may include at least one CRSM. The memory may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the server .

The memory may include at least one OS module . The OS module may be configured to manage hardware resources such the I O interface the I O device the communication interface and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processor . The memory may also store at least one of the following modules which may be executed as foreground applications background tasks daemons and so forth.

A user interface module is configured to provide a user interface to the user using the I O devices and to accept inputs received from the I O devices . For example the user interface module may provide a web interface allowing users to specify locations which are authorized for particular piece of encrypted content . In another example user interface module may enable the user having administrative privileges to designate or select the reference object from a list of different reference objects. In some implementations the user interface module may provide an application programming interface API .

A location determination module may also be stored in the memory and is configured to determine the location of the media device. The location determination module may be configured to determine location using network positioning services or facilities. For example the server may query a cellular data carrier to provide positioning information for the media device based on time difference of arrival data to several cellular radio sites. The location determination module may also receive information from data networks or third party providers which associate a particular network address to a particular location. For example the internet protocol address of 206.33.56.105 a media access control address 04 00 12 03 11 A1 of a wireless access point or both may be associated with the street address of 935 Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest in Washington D.C.

The location determined by the location determination module may be used instead of or in addition to the location information provided by the location determination module of the media device. In some implementations where the media device omits the location determination module information from the location determination module may be used to determine the location based decryption event or the encryption event.

The memory may also store the cryptographic key generation module which is configured to generate the cryptographic key . The cryptographic key generation module may generate the cryptographic key using a random or pseudo random number generator. In other implementation the generation of the cryptographic key is predetermined randomly determined determined based on an algorithm and so forth.

The cryptographic key may be generated based on location. In one example where the distance may reach a plurality of different locations e.g. different rooms the cryptographic key generation module may generate different cryptographic keys for different authorized locations.

The memory includes a datastore for storing information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion thereof may be distributed across at least one other device such as a server a network storage device and so forth. As illustrated in the datastore may include the cryptographic key the location data the encrypted content and so forth.

The cryptographic key may be transferred using any suitable method. In some implementations the cryptographic key is transferred to the media device using radio frequency transmission optical transmission electrical signals and so forth. The cryptographic key may be transmitted to the media device from any suitable source. For example the cryptographic key may be transmitted from the server from a caching server and so forth.

As described above the location data may include data indicative of a location. For example in one implementation the location data includes geolocation data which is indicative of the latitude and longitude of the media device.

As illustrated in and described above the encrypted content may include a variety of different types of encrypted data. In this implementation the encrypted content may include audio data video data eBook data application data annotation data and other data . Content may be downloaded or streamed from the server to the media device.

Although the above has been shown using the media device and the server there can be many alternatives modifications and variations. For example some of the modules of the server may be expanded or combined. In another example one of the media devices may be configured to act as the server for other media devices. Further in some implementations the functions provided by certain modules may be employed by a separate information processing system operated by a separate entity.

The media device at block transmits a request for encrypted content . For example the user may request encrypted content associated with a meeting which is scheduled soon. As described above in some implementations the media device transmits the request for encrypted content to the reference object .

At block the server receives the request for the encrypted content . At block the server transmits at least a portion of the encrypted content . As described above in some implementations the reference object may transmit the encrypted content . The server may be configured to transmit at least a portion of the encrypted content after an occurrence of the location based decryption event.

At block the media device receives the encrypted content . Because the encrypted content is encrypted and the media device does not have the proper cryptographic key for decryption the user is unable to view or otherwise present the content.

As indicated by block based on a first location the media device determines an occurrence of a location based decryption event. As discussed above the location based decryption event may include a variety of events. For example the location based decryption event may include the media device moving into the authorized location . The location based decryption event may include the media device being located within a predetermined distance of the designated reference object .

The location determination module based in part on information from the one or more location sensors generates location data . The location data may include first location data and second location data. In this example the media device may determine a first location of the media device based on the generated first location data . The first location data may include geolocation data which is indicative of a latitude and longitude of the media device. Based on that location data the determination of occurrence of the location based decryption event may be made by the location based decryption event module .

At block based on the occurrence of the location based decryption event the media device transmits a request for the cryptographic key . Alternatively based on the occurrence of the location based decryption event the server transmits the encrypted content . For example the location determination module may provide the location data which indicates the occurrence of the location based decryption event and transmission of the cryptographic key without the request .

At block the server receives the request for the cryptographic key . At block based on the request the server generates the cryptographic key . In some implementations the server may retrieve a previously generated cryptographic key . As discussed above the cryptographic key may be generated using a variety of methods. In some implementations the designated reference object may be configured to generate and transmit the cryptographic key .

At block the server transmits the cryptographic key . At block the media device receives the cryptographic key .

Based on the receipt of the cryptographic key the media device at block decrypts at least a portion of the encrypted content . At block the media device displays at least a portion of the decrypted content.

The media device may be a portable device in that it may be move from one location to another. Following such a change of location based on a second different location the media device at block determines an occurrence of an encryption event. As discussed above the encryption event may include a variety of events. For example a change in a location of the media device a change in a connection state of the media device with a designated reference object an elapsed amount of time the end of a time window an expiration of the cryptographic key and so forth.

As indicated by block based on the occurrence of the encryption event the media device terminates the presentation of the decrypted content. In some implementations based on the occurrence of the encryption event the media device re encrypts the decrypted content. The re encryption may use the cryptographic key or another cryptographic key . After the decrypted content is re encrypted this content is once again unintelligible to the user.

In other implementations the access by the user to the encrypted content may be terminated in other ways. For example the encryption event may trigger the media device to enter a locked state requiring a password to unlock. Or the cryptographic key may be erased revoked or otherwise be rendered unavailable for use resulting in the encrypted content remaining encrypted. In some implementations based on the determination of the encryption event the decrypted content is deleted from the media device.

As described above in an alternative implementation the server is configured to determine the occurrence of the location based decryption event the encryption event or both. In this implementation the sever may transmit the cryptographic key to the media device based on the occurrence of the location based decryption event. In addition based on the occurrence of the encryption event the server may re encrypt content which has been decrypted revoke the previously issued cryptographic key suspect streaming of the encrypted content and so forth.

In some implementations the media device is configured to receive at least one annotation associated with the decrypted content. For example after the media device displays decrypted content e.g. a spreadsheet the media device may enable the user to operate with an input device and receive from the user the annotation associated with the spreadsheet. The annotation may include a note or a comment associated with the spreadsheet. Continuing with this example based on the occurrence of the encryption event the media device or the server may encrypt the annotation. In another example the media device does not encrypt the annotation based on the encryption event.

The annotation may be stored in a variety of different devices. For example based on the occurrence of the encryption event the media device may be configured to store the annotation in at least one of the media device the server and the reference object . In some implementations where the server or the reference object stores the annotation the annotation may be shared with a plurality of different users.

At block the encrypted content is accessed. For example the user may use the media device to request and receive the encrypted content from the server .

At block based on a determination of an occurrence of a location based decryption event the media device generates decrypted content by decrypting at least a portion of the encrypted content . Continuing the example based on the request for access to the encrypted content the media device may determine a first location e.g. a room in a building of the media device. Based on the determined first location in this example the media device determines an occurrence of the location based decryption event. In one example the location based decryption event includes presence of the media device at a geolocation which is determined based on a satellite based navigation system.

In some implementations the determination of the location based decryption event includes determining that the media device has received a password from a user input device. That is in this implementation in addition to the requirement that the media device must be located at an authorized location the user must also enter a password before the media device receives the cryptographic key . With now at least a portion of the content decrypted block causes the decrypted portion of the content to be presented. The decrypted portion may be presented using any of the display devices or speakers or other output devices described above.

At block the media device determines occurrence of an encryption event. In one example the determination of the occurrence of the encryption event is based on the media device being at a second different location such as movement of the media device.

As indicated by block based on the occurrence of the encryption event the media device causes the decrypted content to be terminated. Based on the occurrence of the encryption event the media device re encrypts the decrypted content revokes the cryptographic key or otherwise terminates access to the content.

At block a request for encrypted content is received. For example the user may operate with an input device to request an encrypted file stored in the server be transferred at least in part to the media device. As indicated by block the server transmits the encrypted content . The server may transmit the encrypted content in response to the receiving the request for the encrypted content .

As indicated by block based on a location of the media device the server determines an occurrence of a location based decryption event. For example the location based decryption event module may determine the occurrence of the location based decryption event based on the media device being located within the predetermined distance of the designated reference object .

As indicated by block based on the occurrence of the location based decryption event the server transmits the cryptographic key . Continuing with the example the cryptographic key generation module may select a stored cryptographic key and transmit the selected cryptographic key using the network .

At block the server determines an occurrence of an encryption event. For example the server may determine the occurrence of the encryption event based on the media device not being located within the predetermined distance of the designated reference object . Or the location determination module may provide location data that the media device has moved to the unauthorized location .

At block based on the occurrence of the encryption event the server causes the media device to terminate the presentation of decrypted content. For example content which has been decrypted using the cryptographic key may be re encrypted using the cryptographic key erased from the memory and so forth. After the decrypted content is re encrypted this content is once again unintelligible.

At block the server transmits the encrypted content to the media device. For example the server may transmit the encrypted content in response to the user requesting the encrypted content .

Block determines whether the media device has a predetermined geolocation. For example the server may determine whether the media device is located within a predetermined zip code.

When block determines that the media device has a predetermined geolocation block determines whether the media device is within a predetermined distance of the designated reference object . For example the server may determine whether the media device is within fifty feet of a particular access point.

When block determines that the media device is within the predetermined distance of the designated reference object block determines whether the media device has an authorized identification number. For example the server may determine the serial number of the media device has been registered on a list of devices approved to access the cryptographic key .

As indicated by block when the server determines that the media device includes an authorized identification number the server transmits the cryptographic key to the media device.

As shown in when the server determines that the media device does not have the predetermined geolocation or is not within the predetermined distance of the designated object or does not have an authorized identification number the process may return to block .

The media device at block presents the decrypted content. As described above the content has been decrypted and presented following a location based decryption event.

Block determines whether the media device has moved from an authorized location . For example the media device may determine that the media device is no longer located with the authorized room .

When the media device determines that the media device has moved from the authorized location the process proceeds to block . Block terminates the presentation of the decrypted content. For example the content may be re encrypted the cryptographic key may be revoked and so forth.

When block determines that the media device has not moved from the authorized location block determines whether the media device has been disconnected from the designated reference object .

When block determines that the media device has been disconnected from the designated reference object the process proceeds to block which terminates presentation. When block determines that the media device has not been disconnected from the designated reference object block determines whether a predetermined amount of time has elapsed. This may be time elapsed since issuance of the cryptographic key since last access of the content and so forth.

When block determines that a predetermined amount of time has elapsed the process proceeds to block and terminates the presentation of the decrypted content. When the block determines that the predetermined amount of time has not elapsed the process may return to block and the media device may continue to present the decrypted content.

In one alternative implementation the media device is configured to encrypt content e.g. cleartext material based on the location of the media device. In one example the media device encrypts cleartext material based on the location of the media device being within an unauthorized location . For example the unauthorized location may include a testing center. In this example the media device is configured to encrypt material such as notes taken during class based on the media device being located within the testing center. Upon leaving the unauthorized location the encryption may be removed or the corresponding cryptographic key may be provided.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations.

Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

