---

title: Ship or air deployable automated buoy refueling station for multiple manned or unmanned surface vessels
abstract: A fueling system including a ship or air deployable automated fueling station and one or more sea surface water vessels. The fueling station including a ballast arrangement to maintain an optimal freeboard for fueling the one or more water vessels, the fueling station and the one or more water vessels including a communication arrangement for communications between the fueling station and the one or more water vessels. The fueling station including a plurality of nozzles for simultaneously fueling a plurality of water vessels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08991447&OS=08991447&RS=08991447
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08991447
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131204
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 840 349 filed Jun. 27 2013 titled Hummingbird Fueling station for Sea Surface Water Vessels which is herein incorporated by reference. This application is also related to U.S. Non Provisional Patent Application application Ser. No. 13 929 527 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 943 992 filed concurrently with the above cited U.S. Provisional Patent Application also filed Jun. 27 2013 titled Remote Autonomous Refueling Buoy for Sea Surface Craft hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a fueling system including a ship or air deployable automated fueling station and one or more sea surface water vessels the fueling station including a ballast arrangement to maintain an optimal freeboard for fueling the one or more water vessels the fueling station and the one or more water vessels including a communication arrangement for communications between the fueling station and the one or more water vessels.

This invention is directed towards a class of surface water vessels that include aluminum hulled vessels of about 40 feet that displace over 20 000 pounds of water. These vessels may be unmanned surface vessels USVs may be powered by diesel engines and twin propellers or waterjets. The fuel capacity is generally 400 to 800 gallons which translates to a limited endurance while performing the mission for which they were designed. All must be brought to the mission area by a larger host vessel.

Generally each USV must be retrieved from the sea and brought on board the host vessel to be refueled. This reduces the percentage of time the USVs are conducting their mission reducing their effectiveness and also causes the host vessel to remain relatively close to the mission area. While recovering the host vessel may be restricted in course and speed unable to launch and recover other USVs and not able to operate other systems which limits its efficiency. If the host vessel can only launch recover one USV at a time as is typically the case this creates a queuing problem for groups of USVs and subtracts from the total mission time available as all must wait while each unit is replenished and re launched before returning to the mission area. Deteriorating sea conditions may make recovery difficult dangerous or impossible and disrupt the USVs mission.

Recently the U.S. Navy has been developing and working on arrangements for the at sea refueling of USVs. There are many difficulties associated with open water refueling such as for example unpredictable sea states and difficulty in obtaining a proper connection between the USV and the fueling station to avoid spillage. It is therefore desired to have an at sea refueling station that overcomes the pitfalls of at sea refueling and obviates the need for using a host vessel to provide this service allowing the host vessel to conduct other missions simultaneously or stand off from a potentially hazardous area.

In one aspect the invention a fueling system for securing and fueling a plurality of water vessels at a fueling station. In this aspect the fueling system includes a fueling station. The fueling station has a fuel receptacle therein a plurality of fuel nozzles each of the plurality of fuel nozzles having a probe receiving area for receiving a probe therein. The fueling station also includes a plurality of conduits wherein each of the plurality of conduits has an end in the fuel receptacle and another end connected to one of the fuel nozzles. The fueling station also includes a fuel sensor positioned within the fuel receptacle for determining the level fuel therein. The fueling station also a GPS receiver that calculates the geographic position of the fueling station and a latching sensor at each of the plurality of nozzles for determining if a water vessel probe is securely attached thereto. In this aspect the fueling system also includes a plurality of water vessels each of the plurality of water vessels having a probe each probe for positioning within a respective one of the probe receivers wherein when each probe receiving fuel from the fuel receptacle via the fuel conduit. The fueling station also includes a ballast arrangement for maintaining the fueling station at a predetermined freeboard.

In another aspect the invention is a ship or air deployable automated fueling station. In this aspect the ship or air deployable automated fueling station includes a fuel receptacle therein and a plurality of fuel nozzles. Each of the plurality of fuel nozzles has a probe receiving area for receiving a probe therein. The fueling station also includes a plurality of conduits wherein each of the plurality of conduits has an end in the fuel receptacle and another end connected to one of the fuel nozzles. In this aspect the fueling station also has a fuel sensor positioned within the fuel receptacle for determining the level fuel therein. Also included is a GPS receiver that calculates the geographic position of the fueling station and a latching sensor at each of the plurality of nozzles for determining if a water vessel is attached thereto. In this aspect the ship or air deployable automated fueling station has a ballast arrangement for maintaining the fueling station at a predetermined freeboard.

As illustrated conduits extend from within the fuel receptacle up to the nozzles. In operation the conduits provide fuel from the fuel receptacle to the nozzles to the water vessels via their respective probes . Although not illustrated known pumps and valves may be employed to pump the fuel through the conduits . also shows a fuel level sensor within the fuel receptacle for sensing the amount of fuel in the fuel receptacle .

The communications block also includes medium range communication elements such as a radar for communications within about a several hundred feet with the water vessels having corresponding radars . Together the medium range radars and form a medium range communication arrangement conventionally used for docking operations. The communications block may also include short range communication devices such as transponders for communicating with the water vessels within about 10 feet for fine adjustment of the funnel via actuation of the panographic arrangement with the actuator . The water vessels would also have corresponding transponders the two transponders and forming a short range communication arrangement. Alternatively as shown in the short range transponders may be positioned lower down on the chassis closer to the nozzle for more efficient communication between the fueling station and the respective water vessel . The short range communication device including transponders and may implement known technology such as electro optical and or infrared spectrums for providing kinematic positioning of the fueling elements. also shows the fueling station having a GPS receiver for calculating the geographic location of the fueling station . The water vessels also include a GPS receiver for calculating their geographic location.

One of the benefits of the fueling system is the ability to maintain the fueling station at a predetermined freeboard or vertical height with respect to the surrounding water. As stated above the ballast tank along with other elements of a ballast arrangement are used to achieve this goal. The ballast sensor and the fuel level sensor communicate with the controller to maintain the fueling station at a desired vertical height freeboard. In operation the controller is programmed to correlate a known fuel level in the fuel tank with a known water level in the ballast tank the amount of fluid contained in one tank counterbalances the amount in the other thereby resulting in a desired freeboard. Consequently as fuel from the fuel tank is removed water is added to the ballast tank to make up for this loss of fuel. If fuel is added to the tank then water is removed from the ballast tank . In response to a change in the fuel level the controller actuates the ballast intake outtake assembly to either add or remove water from the ballast tank . The amount of water added or removed from the ballast tank is determined by the change in the fuel level detected by sensor . Based on readings from the ballast level sensor the controller determines when the appropriate amount of water is added or removed from the tank .

Another benefit of the fueling system is the ability to have remotely located water vessels communicate with the fueling station . This allows the one or more water vessels and the fueling station to find each other over a distance exchange information such as location data fuel level data and latched vessel data indicating the number of water vessels being fueled at the fueling station. Based on the exchanged information fueling related determinations are made such as whether to proceed to the fueling station to receive fuel. The fueling system is equipped to exchange the relevant information and perform fueling activities because of the communication system.

As stated above the fueling system includes a communication system having a long range communication arrangement a medium range communication arrangement for communications within about a several hundred feet and a short range communication arrangement for communicating within about 10 feet for directing the water vessels into the fueling station so that the respective probe enters the respective nozzle . As outlined with respect to the controller is electronically connected to the communication elements and located on the fueling station . The controller may also receive and exchange information with the one or more water vessels and a host ship or other control platform via communication elements located on the one or more water vessels .

Regarding the long range communications the controllers and may communicate relative positions of the fueling station and the one or more water vessels . The GPS receivers and may calculate their respective positions based on radio signals received from a number of navigation satellites. Thus for example via the above mentioned data link the transponder at the fueling station may send location data i.e. its GPS location calculated by GPS receiver to one of the water vessels which is received by the transponder . The transponder may also send information such as the amount of fuel in the tank as detected by sensor . The transponder may also send data pertaining to the number of vessels that are currently latched and being fueled at the fueling station . This information is ascertained by means of the plurality of latching sensors located within the receiving area of the nozzles . All this data is received by the water vessel via the transponder . As illustrated and as outlined above the fueling station is equipped to fuel a plurality of water vessels simultaneously. Thus depending on the number of vessels currently being fueled and the amount of fuel remaining in the tank the fueling station may or may not be able to accommodate another water vessel . Consequently based on the data received the vessel controller determines whether to proceed to the fueling station to receive fuel. If the controller decides to proceed to fueling based on GPS data received from the fueling station and GPS location data from the vessel receiver the controller generates navigation instructions to guide the water vessel to the fueling station . As the water vessel proceeds towards the fueling station the GPS data may be updated by receivers and at regular intervals to ensure that the vessel is on path to the fueling station . As the GPS data is updated the navigation instructions may also be updated.

As stated above the communication arrangement also includes a medium range communication arrangement for communications within about a several hundred feet. In operation when a water vessel is approaching the fueling station when the water vessel gets within about 1 200 ft. to about 800 ft. a data link can be established and the long range communications hands off to the medium range communications. Thus medium range communications between the fueling station and a water vessel may be enabled when they are 1 200 ft. to about 800 ft. apart and may continue to when they are in contact with each other. The medium range communications may be radars and located on the fueling station and the water vessel respectively. The radars and communicate with greater precision than the long ranged. Based on exchanged radar signals the water vessel travels from several hundred feet out towards the guide arms and shown in .

The guide arms and help to direct the water vessel towards the nozzle at the fueling station . The short range communications takes over at this point with the transponders and communicating to provide the precision necessary to direct the vessel probe within the nozzle . Once the probe is inserted into the nozzle the probe may be latched therein and signal is sent to the fueling station controller notifying that the probe is securely latched therein. This information is sent to the controller by latching sensors located within the receiving area of the nozzles . This latching and signaling system is outlined in U.S. Pat. No. 8 225 735 which as stated above is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. For example other known communications systems may be used such as SATCOM VHF HF or the like. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

