---

title: Method to create gradient index in a polymer
abstract: Novel photo-writable and thermally switchable polymeric materials exhibit a refractive index change of Δn≧1.0 when exposed to UV light or heat. For example, lithography can be used to convert a non-conjugated precursor polymer to a conjugated polymer having a higher index-of-refraction. Further, two-photon lithography can be used to pattern high-spatial frequency structures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08859190&OS=08859190&RS=08859190
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08859190
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130904
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 697 164 filed Sep. 5 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to gradient index optical materials and in particular to a method to create gradient index in a photo writable or thermally switchable polymeric material.

Graded index GRIN glasses have been used for specific optical applications e.g. GRIN lenses for fiber optics for decades. Additionally GRIN materials have been shown to provide advantages in more general lens designs. Unfortunately actual utilization of GRIN materials has been limited to niche applications. This is due to limitations in the available index of refraction ranges and the cumbersome manufacturing required.

Since the introduction of gradient index optics in late 1960s there have been many attempts to improve the method of production or the materials used to create such optics. Methods including neutron irradiation chemical vapor deposition polymerization techniques ion exchange and crystal growth have all been explored. See D. T. Moore 19 1035 1980 . Photolithography has been used to induce gradient index lenses. See O. Doyle and T. Galstian 17 4970 2009 . More recently nanosized layered structures of two different types of polymers have been used to create graded index lenses. See M. Sandrock et al. 84 3621 2004 and A. R. Kamdar et al. 65 1743 2007 . However In all cases the differences in index are relatively low and manufacturing of made to order lenses with the current material sets is very expensive.

The present invention is directed to photo writable material PWM or thermally switchable material TSM polymer systems which can be used to create a gradient index. The method to create a gradient index in a polymer comprises providing a low index non conjugated precursor polymer having a photo or thermally cleavable leaving group and photoexposing or thermally activating the precursor polymer to eliminate the cleavable leaving group thereby providing a conjugated polymer having a higher index of refraction than the precursor polymer. For example a PWM can be photopatterned using conventional contact lithography or multiphoton lithography. For example a TSM can be patterned by localized heating using an atomic force microscope or by exposure to photons. For example the precursor polymer can be a precursor to poly phenylene vinylene PPV and the leaving group can be a xanthate. The polymers can be further improved by incorporation of alkoxysilane functional groups. For example adding trialkoxysilane groups can provide reactive sites for acid or base catalyzed condensation reactions which can improve the mechanical properties of the polymers by introducing silica like material intimately within the matrix while still enabling photo or thermally activated patterning.

The precursor polymers can have index of refraction values as low as 1.3. Upon being written with UV light or localized high temperature the non conjugated polymer chemically converts to conjugated polymer with an extended electronic structure and known indices as high as 2.7. This index of refraction change is significantly larger than current GRIN material systems. A material with this ability enables a wide range of optical applications ranging from micro to macro optics. Very inexpensive conventional lenses can be used as starting materials which can be modified to create more advanced optics at low cost. For example low cost spherical lenses can be aspherized with a thin layer of PWM or TSM on one or multiple surfaces. These materials enable manufacturing methods wherein optics can be built using an additive process rather than relying on a subtractive process. For example diffractive elements can be directly written within the material without a need for etching material. The optics fabrication process enables high throughput and customization of each manufactured article. For example high throughput can be achieved by using parallel 3D direct write patterning e.g. using the lithography equivalent of multiphoton multifocal microscopy. Further the large index change enables entire optical systems to be written within a volume of the material. The material system and its patterning can reduce the size weight and cost of cameras binoculars rifle telescopes and a wide variety of imaging or computational sensors.

State of the art GRIN optical materials are limited by factors such as the magnitude of the index of refraction change n the ultimate diameter of the GRIN lens and the high cost of manufacturing. The present invention is directed to method to make inexpensive made to order manufacturable GRIN optics that rely on the use of PWMs or TSMs that can be converted from a low to a high index state. The PWMs and TSMs preferably have good optical properties e.g. high uniformity and low absorption with potentially large available refractive index change n and spatial gradient n x. Preferably n 1. According to the present invention photoexposure of a photo writable low index precursor polymer induces an elimination reaction that causes double bond conjugation thus increasing the index of refraction. These polymers can be used to fabricate advanced optics with a n 1 within the same medium when converted between the two index states. Control of the degree of conjugation can be used to enable a true analog approach to patterning gradient index optics.

An example of the present invention is illustrated in . A low index non conjugated precursor polymer having a photocleavable leaving group is provided. In this example the low index non conjugated precursor polymer comprises a precursor to poly p phenylene vinylene i.e. a poly p xylylene derivative . In this example the leaving group comprises a xanthate . Photoexposing the precursor polymer eliminates the photocleavable leaving group thereby providing a conjugated polymer having a higher index of refraction than the precursor polymer. In this example when the poly p phenylene vinylene precursor is exposed to UV light hv the xanthate eliminates as carbon disulfide CSand an alcohol ROH thereby providing the conjugated polymer poly p phenylene vinylene having a higher index of refraction than the precursor .

Synthetic routes to PPV precursor polymers have been developed for capacitor applications. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 955 945 to Dirk et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 8 426 321 to Dirk et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. The synthetic route for preparing PPV can have a large effect on its properties. See S. Son et al. 269 376 1995 and S. C. Lo et al. 11 2228 2001 . Optical patterning of precursor polymers obtained by the Wessling route wherein the leaving group is a sulfonium salt has previously been reported. See D. Credgington et al. 20 2842 2010 . However several disadvantages are associated with the sulfonium precursor polymer namely low stability low solubility in non polar solvents which are superior for spin coating and elimination of HCl which can degrade indium tin oxide and other potential components of a device . See S. Son et al. 269 376 1995 and S. C. Lo et al. 11 2228 2001 . Xanthate precursor polymers on the other hand are very stable highly soluble in non polar organic solvents and eliminate non caustic side products during elimination. Thus the ability to photopattern xanthate precursor polymers provides several advantages over sulfonium precursor polymers. Examples of other precursor polymers that can be used include but are not limited to precursors to polyacetylene poly p phenylene poly thiophene vinylene poly pyrrole vinylene poly 1 4 naphthylene vinylene poly p pyridine vinylene and substituted versions thereof. Examples of other leaving groups that can be used include but are not limited to acetates dithiocarbamates sulfinyl sulfoniums and halogens.

Lithography can be used to convert the non conjugated precursor polymers which contain xanthate groups to conjugated PPV polymers. See R. S. Johnson et al. 47 3936 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference. Conjugated PPV features with sizes as small as 1 m can be produced using simple contact lithography. show optical and fluorescence microscopy images of patterned PPV. The numbers indicate the feature size and spacing in microns . Multiphoton lithography can also be used to pattern the polymers. shows a dark field image of a two photon lithographically patterned PPV precursor polymer containing 2 w w sensitizer using an ultra fast 80 MHz pulsed Ti sapphire laser with 60 fs pulses and a 500 nm spot size at 750 nm wavelength. The initial PPV precursor polymers prior to conversion can have index of refraction values as low as 1.3 at 632 nm. See M. Prelipceanu et al. 10 77 2007 . Conjugated polymers of the PPV type can have indices of refraction n as high as 2.7 at 550 nm depending upon synthesis technique. See P. K. H. Ho et al. 285 233 1999 . Therefore this material set can provide a solid change in magnitude of the index of refraction of as much as n 1.4 which is almost an order of magnitude better than tunable refractive index materials which have been reported in the literature. See M. Sandrock et al. 84 3621 2004 .

The precursor materials can be patterned using two photon lithography a type of multiphoton lithography MPL . MPL is a method for the fabrication of intricately 3D structured materials with nanoscale precision. Previously pulsed laser light has been focused into a photosensitive reagent solution to initiate photochemical reactions by a multiphoton absorption process. This nonlinear excitation is restricted to regions of high photon density i.e. proximal to the focal volume of a focused laser beam enabling photochemical reactions such as photopolymerization and photocrosslinking to be confined to highly resolved 3D volumes on the order of 1 femtoliter. See L. D. Zarzar et al. 50 9356 2011 . Recently two photon lithography has been used to create many elaborate 3D structures including embedded waveguides within a 3D matrix material. See V. Schmidt et al. 2 170 2007 . Two photon lithography has also been used to polymerize monomers to create microfabricated graded index lenses consisting of monomers and polymers. See M. Whitaker et al. 88 CWA4 1 2003 .

The non conjugated precursor polymer can be exposed to different doses of photons in different regions to create a graded index material. For example two photon lithography can be used to pattern conjugated PWMs in three dimensions. In particular two photon lithography can be used to form graded index structures as shown in . For example a relatively thin e.g. 10 m layer of PWM can be applied to the surface of a glass substrate and two photon lithography with a small lateral spot size e.g. 500 nm can be used convert the low index material to a high index material in a 3D ramp pattern.

The precursor polymers can be modified to incorporate alkoxysilane functional groups which can improve the mechanical properties of the photo writable materials while still enabling photopatterning. For example as shown in adding trialkoxysilane end groups can provide reactive sites for acid or base catalyzed condensation reactions which can crosslink the precursor polymers and improve the mechanical properties of the polymers by introducing silica like material intimately within the matrix while still enabling photo or thermally activated patterning. shows a schematic illustration of patterning using two photon lithography wherein the solid dots represent silicon atoms the light lines represent unconverted precursor linkers and the heavy lines represent photo converted conjugated linkers. The addition of silane functionality may more closely match the volumetric coefficient of thermal expansion of the lens materials being modified. In addition the modified materials can be stronger since they can be crosslinked after the sol gel condensation reactions enabling both polishing of the polymer as well as molding of larger scale lenses.

The optics fabrication process of the present invention can combine high throughput with customization of each manufactured article. For example high throughput can be achieved by parallel patterning e.g. using the lithography equivalent of multiphoton multifocal microscopy. See K. Bahlmann et al. 15 10991 2007 . Given the measured dose needed for conversion of the exemplary PPV material the output power of a single Ti sapphire pulsed laser can be divided into 30 50 focal spots for patterning. In combination with the PPV material system two photon lithography offers 3D control of refractive index in thicknesses up to 400 m nominally limited by working distance of high NA microscope optics . Optical systems that do not fit into the thickness constrained by two photon lithography can be assembled by stacking and using interferometric alignment features patterned by the same two photon manufacturing process.

There are many applications for optical materials in which a n 1 can be achieved with lithography level positional control. Three dimensional patterning of optics within a PWM layer enables flexible manufacturing of symmetric or asymmetric optics in which both surfaces and the media bounded by them are put to use. For example photo conversion of a PWM decoration layer on an ordinary lens enables conversion of spherical surfaces to aspheric surfaces. For example a thin i.e. 10 100 m layer of PWM can be deposited on a surface or surfaces of a single lens or sandwiched in a cemented assembly of ordinary lenses. Photopatterning of such a decoration layer can be used to produce an aspheric surface or correct fabrication errors in the ordinary lens e.g. surface or element decenters . Less expensive aspheric lenses fabricated from PWM modified ordinary lenses generally allows the use of fewer optical elements in a system resulting in savings in size weight improving throughput and reducing costs. Also PWMs can be patterned in three dimensions using two photon lithography as described above. Individual or multiple PWM layers can be patterned in three dimensions to fabricate an entire optical system or arrays of optical systems. Parallelization of two photon lithography enables high throughput and highly flexible manufacturing of GRIN optics. Also arrays of microlenses can be written on glass plates using this methodology. The combination of novel materials and photo patterning methods enables reductions in weight and cost of conventional optics as well as the manufacturing of unique optical systems e.g. an ultra wide field of view or computational imaging system.

The present invention has been described as a method to create gradient index in a polymer. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

