---

title: Efficient electrocatalytic conversion of COto CO using ligand-protected Auclusters
abstract: An apparatus and method for COreduction using an Auelectrode. The Auelectrode is comprised of ligand-protected Auhaving a structure comprising an icosahedral core of 13 atoms surrounded by a shell of six semi-ring structures bonded to the core of 13 atoms, where each semi-ring structure is typically —SR—Au—SR—Au—SR or —SeR—Au—SeR—Au—SeR. The 12 semi-ring gold atoms within the six semi-ring structures are stellated on 12 of the 20 faces of the icosahedron of the Aucore, and organic ligand —SR or —SeR groups are bonded to the Aucore with sulfur or selenium atoms. The Auelectrode and a counter-electrode are in contact with an electrolyte comprising COand H+, and a potential of at least −0.1 volts is applied from the Auelectrode to the counter-electrode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09139920&OS=09139920&RS=09139920
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09139920
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131004
---
This patent application claims priority from provisional patent application 61 795 166 filed Oct. 11 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory and pursuant to AFOSR Award No. FA9550 11 1 9999 FA9550 11 1 0147 .

One or more embodiments of the present invention relate to an apparatus and method of CO CO reduction using an Auelectrode comprised of ligand protected Au where the ligand protected Aucomprises an icosahedral core of 13 atoms surrounded by a shell of six SR Au SR Au SR semi ring structures where SR represents organic ligands

The chemistry of gold Au surfaces and Au nanoparticles has been the focus of intense study but recent synthetic advances have introduced a new class of small ligand protected Au clusters with unique chemical and electronic properties. Ousters smaller than 2 nanometers nm in diameter differ from larger nanoparticles because their energy levels become quantized and they develop molecule like electronic structures. Crystallographic efforts have confirmed that such small Au clusters form into atomically precise structures and that some species such as ligand protected Auclusters possess an inherent anionic negative charge. Ligand protected Auclusters are a unique platform to study catalytic reactions because they bridge the size gap between molecules and larger nanoparticles they possess an anionic charge and their surface structure is precisely known. Despite these features the catalytic activity of Auand similar atomically precise clusters have only been investigated experimentally for a handful of reactions such as the oxidation of styrene and cyclohexane the hydrogenation of aldehydes and ketones and the electrochemical reduction of O. One particularly appealing catalytic challenge to consider for the negatively charged Aucluster is the reduction of carbon dioxide. Not only is COan important greenhouse gas but it also represents an abundant starting material for the generation of fine chemicals and fuels.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The present disclosure is directed to an apparatus and method for COreduction using an Auelectrode. The Auelectrode is comprised of ligand protected Auhaving a structure comprising an icosahedral core of 13 atoms surrounded by a shell of six semi ring structures bonded to the core of 13 atoms. Each semi ring structure is typically SR Au SR Au SR where SR represents an organic ligand having a sulfur S head group or SeR Au SeR Au SeR where SeR represents an organic ligand having a selenium Se head group. The 12 semi ring gold atoms within the six semi ring structures are stellated on 12 of the 20 faces of the icosahedron of an Aucore and organic ligand SR groups are bonded to the Aucore with sulfur or selenium atoms.

The apparatus and method utilizes an electrochemical cell where the Auelectrode and a counter electrode are in contact with an electrolyte comprising COand H and a potential of at least 0.1 volts is applied from the Auelectrode to the counter electrode. In an embodiment the potential is from about 0.8 to about 1.2 volts. The negatively charged Auworking electrode interacts with H ions and COin the electrolyte and generates CO from the reduction of the CO. In an embodiment the electrolyte is aqueous. In another embodiment the Auworking electrode is immersed in the electrolyte in a working electrode compartment and the counter electrode is immersed in the electrolyte in a counter electrode compartment and the working electrode compartment and the counter electrode compartment are separated by a proton exchange membrane to mitigate the passage of COreduction products from the working electrode compartment to the counter electrode compartment while still allowing current flow via proton conduction from the counter electrode compartment to the working electrode compartment. In another embodiment the working electrode compartment is sealed with a gas tight lid to allow collection of the generated CO and other reaction products.

Spontaneous coupling between the negatively charged Aucluster and COallows highly effective Auuse as a catalyst for the electrochemical reduction of COat generally reduced potentials and high Faradaic efficiency. The apparatus and method produces peak CO CO conversion at a potential generally around 1.0 V with approximately 100 Faradaic efficiency and a rate 7 700 times higher than those for current state of the art processes.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a method for the reduction of COusing an Auelectrode comprised of ligand protected Au.

Generally the present disclosure is directed to a spontaneous and reversible electronic interaction between COand ligand protected Auclusters. Spontaneous coupling between the negatively charged Auduster and COallows highly effective Auuse as a catalyst for the electrochemical reduction of COat generally reduced potentials and high Faradaic efficiency. The disclosure provides a process and apparatus where an Auworking electrode and a counter electrode are immersed in an electrolyte comprised of COand H ions and an electrochemical voltage of at least 0.1 volts is applied from the Auworking electrode to the counter electrode. The negatively charged Auworking electrode interacts with H ions and COin the electrolyte and generates CO from the reduction of the CO. In an embodiment the electrolyte is aqueous. In another embodiment the Auworking electrode is immersed in the electrolyte in a working electrode compartment and the counter electrode is immersed in the electrolyte in a counter electrode compartment and the working electrode compartment and the counter electrode compartment are separated by a proton exchange membrane to mitigate the passage of COreduction products from the working electrode compartment to the counter electrode compartment while still allowing current flow via proton conduction from the counter electrode compartment to the working electrode compartment. In another embodiment the working electrode compartment is sealed with a gas tight lid to allow collection of the generated CO and other reaction products.

An exemplary arrangement is illustrated at . illustrates an electrochemical cell generally at . An electrolyte container holds an electrolyte where electrolyte is comprised of COand H ions. An Auelectrode and a counter electrode is immersed within electrolyte . Auelectrode is in electrical communication with Auelectrode lead and counter electrode is in electrical contact with counter electrode lead . A voltage source has a negative terminal and a positive terminal electrically connected to Auelectrode lead and counter electrode lead respectively. In the embodiment of electrolyte container comprises a working electrode compartment generally indicated at and a counter electrode compartment generally indicated at with proton exchange membrane separating working electrode compartment and counter electrode compartment . As illustrated Auelectrode is immersed in electrolyte in working electrode compartment while counter electrode is immersed in electrolyte in counter electrode compartment . Electrochemical cell may be further comprised of reference electrode as illustrated.

In operation voltage source provides a potential of at least 0.1 volts V from the negative terminal and the positive terminal and establishes a potential of at least 0.1 V from Auelectrode to counter electrode via Auelectrode lead and counter electrode lead . Contact between Auelectrode and electrolyte when voltage source provides the potential of at least 0.1 V as described generates CO and Hat Au25 electrode . In an embodiment voltage source establishes a potential of from about 0.5 V to about 1.5 V from Auelectrode to counter electrode . In a further embodiment voltage source establishes a potential of from about 0.8 V to about 1.2 V from Auelectrode to counter electrode . The generated CO and Hmay be withdrawn from electrochemical cell using for example working electrode compartment outlet .

As described Auelectrode is comprised of ligand protected Au. Here ligand protected Au means a material having a structure comprising an icosahedral core of 13 atoms surrounded by a shell of six semi ring structures bonded to the core of 13 atoms. In an embodiment the each semi ring structure is SR Au SR Au SR where SR represents an organic ligand having a sulfur S head group or SeR Au SeR Au SeR where SeR represents an organic ligand having a selenium Se head group. The crystal structure of the ligand protected Aucomprises one central gold atom having a coordination number of 12 and bonded to 12 additional gold atoms where each of the 12 additional gold atoms forms a vertex of an icosahedron around the central gold atom such that the one central gold atom and the 12 additional gold atoms form an Aucore. Additionally 12 semi ring gold atoms are stellated on 12 of the 20 faces of the icosahedron of the Aucore within the six semi ring structures where the organic ligand SR or SeR groups are bonded to the Aucore with sulfur or selenium atoms. Each SR Au SR Au SR semi ring structure comprises an Au Au pair bridged by a first SR or SeR ligand with a second SR or SeR ligand bridging one Au atom in the Au Au pair to the Aucore and a third SR or SeR ligand bridging the other Au atom in the Au Au pair to the Aucore such that the Aucluster is capped by eighteen SR or SeR ligands. See e.g. Heaven et al. Crystal Structure of the Gold Nanopartide N CH Au SCHCHPh 130 2008 and see Zhu et al. Correlating the Crystal Structure of a Thiol Protected AuCluster and Optical Properties 130 2008 and see Kauffman et al. Experimental and Computational Investigation of AuClusters and CO A Unique Interaction and Enhanced Electrocatalytic Activity 134 2012 .

The organic ligand SR or SeR groups may comprise carbon atoms with any number of C C bonds S C bonds Se C bonds C N bonds C O bonds C H bonds or carbon bonded with any other element. Carbon chains may be any length and may be linear branched or cyclic. The ligands may have organic or water soluble moieties along the length at the end. Exemplary organic ligands include but are not limited to phenylethyl mercaptan mercaptohexane captropril glutathione mercaptobutanol thiomalate mercaptobenzoic acid selenomethionine mercaptopropionic acid mercaptobutyric acid mercapto 1 2 propanediol cysteine mercaptomethane mercaptoethane mercaptopropane mercaptobutane mercaptoethanol mercaptomethanol mercaptopropanol mercaptoethylamine mercaptoacetic acid 1H 1 2 4 triazole 3 thiol 5 mercapto 1 methyltetrazole 2 mercapto 1 methylimidazole 2 mercaptothiazoline ethyl 2 mercaptoacetate 2 thiouracil 2 mercapto 5 methyl 1 3 4 thiadiazole D penicillamine mercaptobenzimidazole mercaptobenzoxazole N acetylL cysteine 2 mercapto 6 nitrobenzothiazole 2 amino 6 mercaptopurine 9 D riboside hydrate diisoamylthiomalate 3 mercaptopropanol 4 mercaptobutanol 2 dimethylamino ethanethiol 2 mercapto 5 methyl 1 3 4 thiadiazole and 4 5 diamino 2 6 dimercaptopyrimidine among others.

The Auelectrode may be generally comprised of a plurality of nanoparticles where individual nanoparticles in the plurality are comprised of ligand protected Auas described. The Auelectrode may be additionally comprised of an electrically conductive support and an electrode binder such as a conductive carbon black support and NAFION or may be comprised of a conductive binder material such as a conductive carbon cement. The electrically conductive support and electrode binder or the conductive binder material may be present in Auelectrode in an amount of from 0.01 to 90 by weight of the total Auelectrode weight. Auelectrode may have any physical configuration provided that the physical configuration allows contact between the ligand protected Aucomprising Auelectrode and the COand H comprising electrolyte . For example Auelectrode may be a coated electrode a gas diffusion electrode or any other electrode which allows Auelectrode and electrolyte contact as described.

Counter electrode may be any conductive material. In an embodiment counter electrode is comprised of a noble metal such as platinum.

As described electrolyte is comprised of COand H ions. In an embodiment electrolyte contains at least 0.01 moles COper liter of electrolyte. In a further embodiment electrolyte is present in the apparatus and method at a specific temperature and specific pressure and electrolyte contains an amount of COequal to at least 10 at least 30 or at least 50 of the COpresent when electrolyte is saturated with COat the specific temperature and specific pressure. Electrolyte may be a liquid electrolyte or a solid electrolyte such as a gel electrolyte a polymer electrolyte a ceramic electrolyte or others. Electrolyte may be an aqueous or non aqueous electrolyte. In an embodiment electrolyte is an aqueous solution comprising HO and HCO HCO or mixtures thereof. Within this disclosure when electrolyte is comprised of COand H ions this means the electrolyte may comprise COand H as individual entities or may comprise one or more substances which interact with Auelectrode to generate COand H when Auelectrode operates within electrochemical cell under the conditions described. For example within this disclosure the aqueous solution comprising HO and HCO HCO or mixtures thereof falls within an electrolyte comprising COand H .

In embodiments where electrochemical cell comprises working electrode compartment and counter electrode compartment proton exchange membrane may be any material sufficient to mitigate the passage of COreduction products from working electrode compartment to counter electrode compartment while still allowing current flow via proton conduction from counter electrode compartment to working electrode compartment . Exemplary proton exchange membrane materials include but are not limited to NAFION fritted glass salt bridges and others known in the art.

Ligand protected Auwas prepared using known techniques. See e.g. Zhu et al. Kinetically Controlled High Yield Synthesis of Au25 Ousters 130 2008 among others. Electrochemical COreduction was conducted in a two compartment cell. The Ligand protected Auwas mixed with a conductive carbon black support Vulcan XC 72 Cabot corp. and an electrode binder NAFION and deposited onto a glassy carbon working electrode. This electrode was immersed in a COsaturated electrolyte 0.1M KHCO . A reference electrode Ag AgCl was also placed in the working electrode compartment. The reference electrode was calibrated into the reversible hydrogen electrode RHE scale E E 0.059 pH . A gas tight lid sealed the working electrode compartment to allow collection of the reaction products. A platinum Pt counter electrode was immersed in the second compartment in the same electrolyte in the counter electrode compartment. A proton exchange membrane separated the two compartments. The membrane prevented COreduction products from escaping the working electrode compartment but it still allowed current flow via proton conduction. Electrochemical potentials greater than 0.103 V vs. RHE were applied to the Aucatalyst through the working electrode. Maximum performance was observed at 1.0 V vs. RHE.

Peak CO production from the Au 1 nm catalyst was found at 1.0 V vs. RHE with approximately 100 Faradaic efficiency FE and a rate 7 700 times higher than 2 5 nm Au nanoparticles and bulk Au as indicated at and further detailed at Table 1. FE relates the amount of reaction product to the total number of electrons passed through the electrode. For Au 1 nm CO formation at 1.0 V occurred with approximately 100 FE meaning almost every electron injected into the catalyst layer was utilized for COreduction. Au is known to selectivity reduce COinto CO and CO selectivities ranged between 80.8 and 99.6 for Au 1 nm 71.0 96.9 for the larger Au nanoparticles and 26.9 92.9 for bulk Au depending on the applied voltage as detailed at Table 2. However the higher FE of the Au 1 nm cluster enhanced its CO production rate compared to the those for the other Au catalysts as indicated at and further detailed at Table 1. See also Kauffman et al. Experimental and Computational Investigation of AuClusters and CO A Unique Interaction and Enhanced Electrocatalytic Activity 134 2012 and see Kauffman et al. Supporting Information for Experimental and Computational Investigation of AuClusters and CO A Unique Interaction and Enhanced Electrocatalytic Activity 134 2012 which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The decreased COreduction rates beyond 1.0 V noted at may stem from gaseous products blocking the Ausurface. On the basis of the peak CO production rate of 1.26 mmol cmh a maximum turnover frequency TOF of 87 CO molecules sitesis estimated for the Au 1 nm catalyst where sites are defined as accessible Au atoms and determined from electrochemical surface area measurements. This TOF value is approximately 10 100 times higher than those of current state of the art electrochemical processes and is comparable to previous reports of CO oxidation on ligand free Auclusters n 4 19 .

CO and Hwere the only reaction products detected and the potential dependent product distribution illustrated at provides insight into the electrocatalytic mechanism. CO is the major CO2 reduction product for Au electrodes and the reaction proceeds along a two electron two proton pathway through an adsorbed .CO intermediate generally via the following reactions CO 2H 2 CO HO E 0.103 V vs. RHE pH 7 1 .CO 2 .CO H .COOH H CO HO 3 .CO 2H CO HO 4 H H 5 H H H 6 

In the low potential regime below 0.5 V sequential proton capture and electron transfer converts adsorbed .CO into .COOHbefore forming CO and water. A sharp increase in CO production occurred with the onset of Hevolution at approximately 0.5 V. In this potential range the formation of Hoccurs simultaneously with Hevolution and a CO CO pathway based on the direct reduction of .CO with His likely. CO evolution onset potentials for the larger Au catalysts were comparable to previous results and their equivalent values suggest the presence of similar active sites. Alternatively the smaller CO evolution potential of Au 1 nm points to a unique catalytic site capable of promoting the CO CO reaction closer to the thermodynamic limit.

COis not a polar molecule but it does have a rather strong quadrupole moment and it can couple with anionic species. It is suspected that COadsorption was promoted in part by an electrostatic attraction to the negatively charged Aucluster. The electrostatic potential that developed between the adsorbed COquadrupole and Auredistributed charge within the cluster to produce reversible oxidation like optical and electrochemical phenomena. Finally the Auelectronic structure was restored by simply purging the solution with Nto desorb the weakly bound CO2.

Typical electrocatalysts require large overpotentials to convert COinto useful products ultimately creating a challenge for large scale deployment. In this application Au 1 nm catalyzed the two electron conversion of COinto CO within 90 mV of the formal potential thermodynamic limit of 0.103 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode RHE . The low overpotential is significant because it represents an approximate 200 300 mV reduction in potential compared to the larger Au nanoparticles and bulk Au tested and those in previously published reports. Moreover Au 1 nm showed peak CO CO conversion at 1.0 V with approximately 100 Faradaic efficiency and a rate 7 700 times higher than those for the larger Au catalysts tested and 10 100 times higher than those for current state of the art processes. In practical terms CO is a very useful chemical that can be converted into a variety of valuable hydrocarbon species and a low voltage high efficiency process for converting COinto CO could be instrumental in developing new carbon management technologies.

Thus provided here is an apparatus and method for COreduction using an Auelectrode. The Auelectrode is comprised of ligand protected Auhaving a structure comprising an icosahedral core of 13 atoms surrounded by a shell of six semi ring structures bonded to the core of 13 atoms where each semi ring structure is typically SR Au SR Au SR or SeR Au SeR Au SeR. The 12 semi ring gold atoms within the six semi ring structures are stellated on 12 of the 20 faces of the icosahedron of an Aucore and organic ligand SR or SeR groups are bonded to the Aucore with sulfur or selenium atoms. The Auelectrode is typically comprised of a plurality of Aunanoparticles. The Auelectrode and a counter electrode are in contact with an electrolyte comprising COand H and a potential of at least 0.1 volts is applied from the Auelectrode to the counter electrode. The apparatus and method produces peak CO CO conversion at a potential generally around 1.0 V with approximately 100 Faradaic efficiency and a rate 7 700 times higher than those for current state of the art processes.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

