---

title: Automatic computation of transfer functions
abstract: Technologies pertaining to the automatic computation of transfer functions for a physical system are described herein. The physical system is one of an electrical system, a mechanical system, an electromechanical system, an electrochemical system, or an electromagnetic system. A netlist in the form of a matrix comprises data that is indicative of elements in the physical system, values for the elements in the physical system, and structure of the physical system. Transfer functions for the physical system are computed based upon the netlist.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009640&OS=09009640&RS=09009640
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09009640
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130618
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Systems that include electronic elements e.g. resistors capacitors inductors voltage sources etc. and mechanical elements e.g. springs levers oscillating arms etc. can be difficult to analyze. An exemplary method for analyzing such a system includes the derivation of transfer functions of the system wherein the transfer functions can be employed in connection with finding electronic or mechanical resonant frequencies of the system as well as in connection with designing optimizing and or validating controllers used in the system.

Deriving transfer functions of a system that includes electronic and or mechanical elements however is nontrivial. An exemplary approach for deriving transfer functions of a system is to estimate an input to the system e.g. selecting a first mathematical function that represents a controlled source of energy and also estimating the output of the system e.g. selecting a second mathematical function that is believed to represent the output of the system . Based upon the estimated system input and system output the transfer functions of the system can be derived. Estimating the system input and system output however is often associated with inaccuracies. For instance a conventional approach for estimating input and output of a system involves simulation of the system in the time domain wherein the input to the system is modified during simulation and corresponding output of the system is recorded. The simulated system input and output are then subjected to transformations to generate frequency domain signals. Transfer functions in the frequency domain of the simulated system are then computed based upon the frequency domain signals corresponding to the simulated input and simulated output.

This conventional approach however suffers from various deficiencies. First simulating operation of the system is a nontrivial task and typically requires a user that is performing such simulating to have a relatively large amount of knowledge about the system to ensure that the system remains stable during simulation. Additionally a relatively large amount of simulation needs to be performed to compute transfer functions accurately. The process of simulation and conversion from the time domain to the frequency domain is computationally expensive and can take several days for relatively complex systems using conventional computing devices. Additionally if the system is modified e.g. if an element is added removed or modified the entire process must be repeated.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to the automatic derivation of transfer functions of an electrical mechanical electromechanical electrochemical or an electromagnetic system e.g. a physical system without requiring simulation of input and output of the system. In an exemplary embodiment a computer implemented tool is provided that facilitates receipt of a schematic diagram of a system whose transfer functions are desirably derived. For instance through utilization of the computer implemented tool a user can draw the system. Accordingly a library of selectable system elements e.g. resistors capacitors inductors voltage sources current sources amplifiers controller blocks springs etc. can be provided and the user can draw the physical system by selecting and placing physical system elements from the library relative to one another in a desired manner. Further the user can set forth values that describe parameters of each element in the physical system. Thus the user can draw a physical system that includes a resistor and the user can set forth a resistance value for the resistor.

A netlist can then be formed based upon the schematic of the physical system set forth by the user wherein the netlist is representative of the physical system and includes data that is indicative of types of elements and respective values for the elements included in the physical system as well as locations of elements in the physical system relative to locations of other elements in the physical system. Further in an example for a relatively complex physical system where an energy source is subjected to control a plurality of netlists can be generated for the physical system including netlists that describe subsystems in the physical system e.g. circuits in the system and a system level netlist that describes control systems and interactions between the subsystems in the physical system. The computer implemented tool can additionally receive at least one frequency value with respect to which the physical system is desirably analyzed. The computer implemented tool can then compute transfer functions of the physical system responsive to receiving the netlist and the at least one frequency value. With more particularity the computer implemented tool can compute the transfer functions based upon the data that is indicative of the types of the elements the values for the elements and relative locations of the elements in the physical system with respect to one another as set forth in a subsystem netlist and or system level netlist. The transfer functions computed by the computer implemented tool can be one of an input to output transfer function a control to output transfer function an input impedance transfer function or an output impedance transfer function. Further it is to be noted that the transfer function can take into consideration operation of the control circuit in the physical system.

The computed transfer functions may then be employed in connection with analyzing the physical system in operation designing the physical system optimizing controls for the system and the like. Pursuant to an example it may be desirable to analyze perturbations experienced by an energy storage device that is coupled to an electric grid and accordingly it may be desirable to analyze operation of circuitry that couples the energy storage device to the electric grid. Using the computer implemented tool transfer functions for the aforementioned circuitry can be computed for specified frequencies as well as direct current transfer functions . A spectrum analyzer can be utilized to obtain inputs to the circuitry and frequencies observed in the output of the spectrum analyzer can be provided as input to the transfer functions. The output of the transfer functions can be analyzed to ascertain perturbations that reach the energy storage system. Through identifying and understanding perturbations that reach the energy storage system modifications to the circuitry and or control system can be made to optimize the energy storage system and or extend the life of the energy storage system.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to deriving transfer functions of a physical system are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Further as used herein the terms component and tool are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

With reference now to an exemplary computer implemented tool that facilitates automatically deriving transfer functions of a physical system is illustrated. As used herein the term physical system refers to an electrical system a mechanical system an electromechanical system an electrochemical system and or an electromagnetic system.

The tool optionally includes a netlist generator component that receives a description of the physical system from a user and automatically generates a netlist that describes the physical system based upon the description received from the user. Pursuant to an example a computer implemented graphical user interface can be provided to the user that is employable by the user to generate a schematic diagram of a physical system whose transfer functions are desirably derived. For instance the graphical user interface can provide the user with a blank canvas to place and connect blocks that represent respective elements of the physical system. Electrical system blocks can represent inductors capacitors resistors voltage sources current sources etc. Mechanical system blocks can represent weights springs inertia etc. Further blocks can be representative of portions of a controller such as gains summations etc. Additionally blocks can be connected together to represent systems with coupled electrical and mechanical elements. Likewise blocks can be representative of chemical and or electrochemical elements such as photovoltaic cells piezoelectric elements etc. For purposes of explanation examples described herein pertain to electrical systems that include electrical elements. It is to be understood however that the hereto appended claims are not to be limited to electrical systems.

As indicated above the netlist generator component can receive the schematic of the physical system set forth by the user and can automatically generate a netlist responsive to receiving such schematic. The netlist comprises data that is indicative of types of elements of the physical system and structure of the physical system e.g. position of elements with respect to one another in the physical system . With more specificity the netlist computed by the netlist generator component can be formed as a matrix wherein each row of the matrix includes data that is indicative of a type of a respective element nodes to which the respective element is attached and a value for the respective element. Furthermore the netlist generator component can arrange rows in the matrix such that certain element types are placed in the netlist at particular positions relative to other element types. For instance with respect to an electrical system voltage sources can be positioned in uppermost rows of the netlist while current sources can be positioned in lowermost rows of the netlist.

The tool further includes a receiver component that receives the netlist. In an example the receiver component can receive the netlist from the netlist generator component . In another exemplary embodiment however the receiver component can receive the netlist directly from the user. The tool also comprises a transfer function deriver component that is in communication with the receiver component and automatically derives transfer functions for the physical system based upon the netlist. Additionally while not shown the transfer function deriver component can receive an indication of frequencies with respect to which transfer functions of the system are desirably derived. Therefore if the user is interested for instance in ten particular harmonics of the physical system the user can specify such ten harmonics and the transfer function deriver component can generate transfer functions for the physical system with respect to the identified harmonics.

With reference now to an exemplary tool that facilitates analysis of the aforementioned physical system is illustrated. The tool comprises a system analyzer component that receives the system transfer functions derived by the transfer function deriver component . The system analyzer component further receives exemplary inputs to the physical system. Such inputs can be theoretical in nature such that operation of the physical system can be simulated. In another exemplary embodiment for a physical system that is deployed the user can acquire input frequency characteristics of such system e.g. through use of a spectrum analyzer and can provide such input frequency characteristics to the system analyzer component .

The system analyzer component can utilize the system transfer functions and the physical system inputs to solve for outputs of the physical system e.g. based upon the inputs . Thus the system analyzer component can output data in the frequency domain that is indicative of output of the desirably analyzed physical system. Such output data may be indicative of resonance frequency of the physical system or other perturbations output by the physical system.

A display component is in communication with the system analyzer component . The display component generates graphical output that is indicative of operation of the physical system when provided with the above noted physical system inputs. For example the graphical output can indicate whether the physical system outputs energy at a particular frequency magnitude of energy output at such frequency etc. for specified system inputs. Such graphical output may be in the form of text a graph that is indicative of frequencies and or magnitudes output by the physical system etc.

Now turning to an exemplary depiction of the transfer function deriver component is illustrated. The transfer function deriver component includes a DC transfer function generator component a direct quadrature DQ transfer function generator component and a system transfer function generator component . As will be described in greater detail below with respect to an electrical system the DC transfer function generator component can generate DC transfer functions for low level circuits in the physical system and the DQ transfer function generator component can generate DQ transfer functions for the low level circuits at specified frequencies wherein a DQ rotating reference frame is employed. Thus each DQ transfer function output by the DQ transfer function generator component describes the input to output relationship of an alternating current component and phase of a signal at a specified frequency.

The system transfer function generator component can generate high level system transfer functions that take into consideration how control systems and circuits interact with one another. As indicated previously the transfer function deriver component can receive a high level system netlist which can indicate whether a voltage and or current source is a constant voltage and or current source or a control voltage and or current source. A type of control system use can be described in the high level system netlist. Based upon such high level system netlist the system transfer function generator component can generate system level transfer functions for the physical system. Operation of the transfer function deriver component will now be described in greater detail.

With reference now to an exemplary branch of an electrical system is illustrated. It can be understood that a periodic signal can be represented as follows 

Generating low level circuit transfer functions then is a two step process. First the DC transfer function generator component generates DC transfer functions for the circuit. Thereafter the DQ transfer function generator component generates the DQ transfer functions for the circuit.

To generate the DC circuit transfer functions equations in the following form can be derived 2 where u represents inputs to the circuit and x represents outputs of the circuit. Solving for x yields the following 3 

The DC transfer function generator component computes Aand Bfrom the above mentioned netlist. Eq. 2 can be further broken down as follows 

The DC transfer function generator component can generate based upon the netlist describing the circuit. Each row of the netlist represents a branch of the circuit such as the branch illustrated in . For purposes of explanation at the circuit level each branch can represent a single element such as a resistor an inductor a capacitor a voltage source or a current source. Accordingly each row of the netlist includes 1 a type of the branch R L C V or I 2 the node to which the positive terminal of the branch is connected e.g. node n the node to which the negative terminal of the branch is connected e.g. node n a value for the branch and a name of the branch .

Values for the voltage sources and current sources in the netlist are used to specify the order that the inputs appear in the transfer functions matrix of Eq. 3 . Prior to processing the netlist voltage sources can be placed at the top of the netlist and current sources can be placed at the bottom of the netlist. Arrangement of rows of the netlist can be performed by the netlist generator component based upon a schematic of the circuit set forth by the user. Alternatively the user can arrange contents of the netlist in accordance with pre specified rules wherein voltage sources are located at the top and current sources at the bottom of the netlist.

Referring to the exemplary netlist N above the DC transfer function generator component can generate the node incident matrix A wherein each column in Acorresponds with a branch in N. Further each row in Acorresponds with a node in N. If the positive negative terminal of the ith branch of N is on node j then A 1 A 1 . The DC transfer function generator component can set all other entries in Ato 0. Based upon the exemplary netlist N set forth above the DC transfer function generator component can generate Ato be the following 

 gives n 1 linearly independent Kirchhoff s current law KCL equations. Specifically irepresents currents corresponding to the first n 1 branches in N and irepresents the currents corresponding to the last b n 1 branches in N. Given the foregoing and contents of Eq. 5 the following can be derived by the DC transfer function generator component 6 which relates the dependent currents i to the independent currents i . The DC transfer function generator component can take the transpose of and generate a set of b n 1 linearly independent Kirchhoff s voltage law KVL in the form of 7 which relates the dependent voltages v to the independent voltages v . Using Eq. 6 and Eq. 7 b linearly independent equations are obtained. It can be understood that there must be 2b linearly independent equations since the current and voltage are to be derived for each branch. The remaining b equations can be derived by the DC transfer function generator component using branch constitutive equations which are defined in E F b and bfrom Eq. 4 . Equations for the independent variables iand v can be derived programmatically by the DC transfer function generator component .

Moreover the acts described herein may be computer executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and or stored on a computer readable medium or media. The computer executable instructions can include a routine a sub routine programs a thread of execution and or the like. Still further results of acts of the methodologies can be stored in a computer readable medium displayed on a display device and or the like.

Referring now to an exemplary methodology for defining F and bthat can be performed by the DC transfer function generator component is illustrated. The methodology maps the dependent currents ito the independent voltages v. The methodology starts at and at F b and i are initialized. In an exemplary embodiment F and bcan be set to zero when initialized and i can be set to one when initialized. At a determination is made regarding whether i is less than the number of nodes in N. If i is less than the number of nodes in N then the methodology proceeds to where a determination is made regarding whether branch i of N represents a resistor inductor capacitor or voltage source. If it is determined that branch i represents a resistor inductor or capacitor then the methodology proceeds to where F i i is set. With more particularity if the branch i represents a resistor the ith diagonal entry of F is set to the resistive value of the branch. If the branch i represents an inductor the ith diagonal entry of F is set to the impedance of the branch sL . If the branch i represents a capacitor the ith diagonal entry of F is set to the impedance of the branch 1 sC .

If at it is determined that the branch i of N represents a voltage source then the methodology proceeds to where b i N i 4 1. In other words the ith row and the column corresponding to the voltage source of bis set to 1. Subsequent to acts or at i is incremented and the methodology returns to act . When it is determined at that i is not less than the number of nodes in N the methodology completes at . Thus if the netlist N follows the convention of ordering voltage source branches first and current source branches last then there will be no current sources in the first n 1 branches.

Turning now to an exemplary methodology that can be performed by the DC transfer function generator component in connection with defining E and bis illustrated. Equations E and bmap the dependent voltages vto the independent currents i. The methodology starts at and at E b and i are initialized. Pursuant to an example E and bcan be set to zero when initialized while i can be set to one. The last b n 1 branches rows of the netlist N are parsed through by the methodology . At a determination is made as to whether i is less than or equal to the number of branches in N. If it is determined at that i is less than or equal to the number of branches in N then the methodology proceeds to where a determination is made as to whether branch i in N represents a resistor inductor capacitor or current source. If it is determined at that branch i represents a resistor inductor or capacitor then the methodology proceeds to act where a value for E i i is set. With more particularity if branch i of N represents a resistor then the ith diagonal entry of E is set to the inverse of the resistive value of branch i. If the branch i of N represents an inductor the ith diagonal entry of E is set to the admittance of branch i 1 sL . If the branch i of N represents a capacitor the ith diagonal entry of E is set to the admittance of branch i sC .

If it is determined at that branch i corresponds to a current source then the methodology proceeds to where bis set by way of b i N i 4 1. In other words the ith row and the column corresponding to the current source of bcan be set to 1. Subsequent to act or act the methodology proceeds to where i is incremented. Thereafter the methodology returns to act . When i is found to be equal to the number of branches in N the methodology completes at . If N follows the convention of ordering all voltage source branches first and all current source branches last then an error case will not be encountered.

It can be ascertained that variables in Eq. 4 can be defined based upon the methodologies and . The DC transfer function generator component can then solve for DC transfer functions using Eq. 3 wherein such transfer functions can be in the following form 

As mentioned above the DQ transfer function generator component can derive transfer functions at the circuit level by using multiple reference frame theory thereby allowing for a linear periodically time varying system to be accurately analyzed as a linear time invariant system. With more specificity the DQ transfer function generator component can generate circuit level transfer functions using the DQ rotating reference frame. Equations in DQ are used to model the AC component of each signal and each DQ equation describes the input to output relationship of a signal at a specific frequency. For each frequency to be analyzed e.g. as specified by a user the DQ transfer function generator component can generate a new equation in the form of Eq. 2 . In generating DQ equations the DQ transfer function generator component can represent Eq. 2 as set forth below 

Eq. 9 is similar to Eq. 4 with the difference lying in the size of the DQ equations. Specifically a relationship between the number of equations and the number of states can be set forth as follows as indicated above with respect to Eq. 1 2 N 1 M. This is due to each DQ equation being represented by both the amplitude of a cosine signal d axis and a specific frequency and the amplitude of a negative sine signal q axis at the specific frequency.

To generate DQ equations the DQ transfer function generator component can define each sub matrix from Eq. 9 . The DQ transfer function generator component can generate E and F using equations E and F respectively from Eq. 4 . Specifically multiplying each individual entry in E and F by a 2 2 identity matrix can generate E and F.

It can also be ascertained that Eq. 9 adds the Gand Hmatrices. Such matrices represent a cross coupling between the d axis and q axis equations which occurs at energy storage elements in the circuits this cross coupling is why many DQ controlled inverters have a L decoupling term just before generating the commanded output voltage . Cross coupling terms can also be added to the existing Eand Fmatrices. Gincludes exclusively cross coupling terms for the independent branch currents. Hincludes exclusively cross coupling terms for the independent branch voltages. Addition of the cross coupling terms to Eq. 9 are illustrated in respectively.

Referring solely to an exemplary methodology that can be performed by the DQ transfer function generator component in connection with defining G E and b is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at b G i and i are initialized. For instance band Gcan be set to zero i can be set to the number of nodes in N and j can be set to one.

At a determination is made as to whether i is less than or equal to the number of branches in N. If i is less than or equal to the number of branches in N then the methodology proceeds to where a determination is made as to whether branch i in N represents a resistor. If it is determined that branch i in N does not represent a resistor than the methodology proceeds to where a determination is made as to whether branch i in N represents an inductor. If it is determined that branch i represents an inductor the methodology proceeds to where G 2 j 1 1 2 j 1 2 s G 2 j 1 2 2 j 1 1 s and where is a frequency set forth by the user. For example if the user desires to analyze the physical system at DC 60 Hz 120 Hz and 180 Hz there will be one equation in the form of Eq. 4 and three equations in the form of Eq. 9 . One of such equations will have 2 60 one will have 2 120 and one will have 2 180. Since circuits for which transfer functions are to be generated by the DC transfer function generator component and the DQ transfer function generator component are linear there is no transfer between the DC 60 Hz 120 Hz and 180 Hz circuits. Transfer properties can be considered when processing the system level netlist.

If at it is determined that branch i of N does not represent an inductor than the methodology proceeds to where a determination is made regarding whether branch i of N represents a capacitor. If it is determined that the branch i of N represents a capacitor the methodology proceeds to where E 2 i 1 1 2 i 1 2 N i 4 and E 2 i 1 2 2 i 1 1 N i 4 .

If it is determined at that branch i of N does not represent a capacitor thus branch i represents a voltage source then the methodology proceeds to where b 2 i 1 1 2 N i 4 1 1 1 and b 2 i 1 2 2 N i 4 1 2 1. If at it is determined that the branch i of the netlist represents a resistor or subsequent to acts or the methodology proceeds to where i and j are incremented. Thereafter the methodology returns to act . If it is determined at act that the value for i is not less than or equal to the number of branches in N then the methodology completes at .

Now referring to an exemplary methodology that can be executed by the DQ transfer function generator component in connection with setting values for H b and Fis illustrated. The methodology starts at and at H b and i are initialized. For instance Hand bcan be set to zero when initialized while i can be set to one. At a determination is made regarding whether i is less than the number of nodes represented in N. If it is found that i is less than the number of nodes in N then the methodology proceeds to where a determination is made as to whether branch i in N represents a resistor. If it is found at that branch does not represents a resistor than the methodology proceeds to where a determination is made regarding whether the branch i of N represents an inductor. If it is determined that the branch i represents an inductor than the methodology proceeds to where F 2 i 1 1 2 i 1 2 N i 4 and F 2 i 1 2 2 i 1 1 N i 4 . If at it is determined that branch i of N does not represent an inductor then the methodology proceeds to where a determination is made regarding whether branch i of N represents a capacitor. If it is found that branch i of N represents a capacitor then the methodology proceeds to where H 2 i 1 1 2 i 1 2 s and H 2 i 1 2 2 i 1 1 s. If it is found at that branch i of N does not represent a capacitor e.g. branch i of N represents a voltage source then the methodology proceeds to where b 2 i 1 1 2 N i 4 1 1 1 and b 2 i 1 2 2 N i 4 1 2 1.

If at it is determined that branch i of N represents a resistor or subsequent to acts or the methodology proceeds to where i is incremented. Thereafter the methodology returns to . If it is determined at that i is not less than the number of nodes in the netlist then the methodology completes at .

Subsequent to computing the cross coupling terms the DQ transfer function generator component can place such cross coupling terms in Eq. 9 and can solve for the DQ transfer functions of the circuit. Such transfer functions can have a form as follows 

The system transfer function generator component can compute transfer functions that specify how circuits interact with one another and further specifies how circuits interact with controllers. Such transfer functions can be computed based upon a high level netlist which indicates for each current source and each voltage source whether a respective current source is a constant current source or a controlled current source and whether a respective voltage source is a constant voltage source of a controlled voltage source. The system level netlist can also include data that identifies a type of control system used for each controlled current voltage source.

With reference to an exemplary circuit is illustrated. depicts an exemplary controller that can be employed to control the circuit . Together the circuit and the controller can represent a grid tied single phase inverter that utilizes DQ current control. To model such circuit using the techniques described above the circuit can be split into two average model circuits as shown in . Specifically includes a first circuit and a second circuit which represents the circuit shown in . It is not shown in how i inv is derived. Such current can be found using instantaneous power as follows 

With reference now to an exemplary methodology that facilitates analyzing at least one operational characteristic of a physical system is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a netlist that is representative of a physical system is received wherein the physical system can be an electrical system a mechanical system an electromechanical system an electrochemical system or an electromagnetic system. As noted above the netlist includes data that is indicative of types of elements and respective values for the elements in the physical system. In a particular example the netlist can be representative of an electrical system that is coupled to an energy storage device.

At a transfer function of the physical system is computed based upon the netlist. Such computation can occur responsive to receipt of the netlist at . At at least one operational characteristic of the physical system is analyzed wherein analysis of the operational characteristic of the system comprises outputting graphical data to a display screen that is indicative of the at least one operational characteristic. In an example the netlist can be representative of an electrical system that is coupled to an energy storage device. Accordingly analyzing the at least one operational characteristic of the electrical system can comprise identifying a resonant frequency corresponding to the electrical system. It is further to be ascertained that at a plurality of transfer functions of the electrical system can be computed wherein the plurality of transfer functions comprise at least one of an input to output transfer function a control to output transfer function an input impedance transfer function or an output impedance transfer function. The methodology completes at .

With reference now to an exemplary methodology that facilitates computing transfer functions for an electrical system is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at an interactive graphical user interface is presented to a user wherein the interactive graphical user interface facilitates generation of schematic diagrams that are representative of respective electrical systems. Accordingly the user can generate a schematic diagram of an electrical system by coupling together elements to form nodes and branches.

At a schematic diagram is received by way of the interactive graphical user interface wherein the schematic diagram is representative of an electrical system comprising circuit elements. Such circuit elements may include resistors inductors capacitors voltage sources and or current sources. Optionally the circuit elements can include control system elements. At responsive to receiving the schematic diagram at a netlist is automatically generated wherein the netlist comprises values that are indicative of the respective types of the circuit elements and the structure of the electrical system. Furthermore the netlist can include values for parameters of the elements including resistance values capacitance values etc.

At transfer functions for the electrical system are computed based upon the netlist generated at . The methodology completes at .

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the tools systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in connection with a tool that computes subsystem level transfer functions. By way of another example the computing device can be used in connection with a tool that computes system level transfer functions wherein a physical system includes a controller. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store netlists schematic system diagrams etc.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may include executable instructions netlists schematic system diagrams etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

It is contemplated that the external devices that communicate with the computing device via the input interface and the output interface can be included in an environment that provides substantially any type of user interface with which a user can interact. Examples of user interface types include graphical user interfaces natural user interfaces and so forth. For instance a graphical user interface may accept input from a user employing input device s such as a keyboard mouse remote control or the like and provide output on an output device such as a display. Further a natural user interface may enable a user to interact with the computing device in a manner free from constraints imposed by input device such as keyboards mice remote controls and the like. Rather a natural user interface can rely on speech recognition touch and stylus recognition gesture recognition both on screen and adjacent to the screen air gestures head and eye tracking voice and speech vision touch gestures machine intelligence and so forth.

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. A computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc BD where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection for instance can be a communication medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively or in addition the functionally described herein can be performed at least in part by one or more hardware logic components. For example and without limitation illustrative types of hardware logic components that can be used include Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Program specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Program specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

