---

title: Adjusting application properties
abstract: A method, computer program product, and computer system for identifying a first reference point on a display. A second reference point of an object of an application is identified, wherein the object is on the display. A distance is determined of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display. One or more properties of the application is adjusted based upon, at least in part, the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903179&OS=08903179&RS=08903179
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08903179
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131001
---
The subject application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application with Ser. No. 13 667 416 filed on Nov. 2 2012 the entire content of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Generally computing systems may allow a user to control application properties such as e.g. process priority e.g. CPU and memory allocation network bandwidth audio video volume etc. For example the user may desire to watch a video and run an anti virus scan at the same time however the computing system may not have enough system resources to run both at the same time without incurring e.g. buffering delays while viewing the video. To avoid such buffering delays the user may adjust application properties such that the video is assigned more system resources than running the anti virus scan. This may result in the anti virus scan taking longer but the video may run smoother.

While the computing systems may allow the user to control application properties the control is typically accomplished independently for each application through multiple individual user interfaces. Using multiple individual user interfaces to control application properties may be cumbersome and onerous to the user. As a result the user may be dissuaded from even attempting to control the application properties.

In one implementation a method performed by one or more computing devices comprises identifying by a processor a first reference point on a display. A second reference point of an object of an application is identified wherein the object is on the display. A distance is determined of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display. One or more properties of the application is adjusted based upon at least in part the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display.

One or more of the following features may be included. The one or more adjusted properties of the application may include at least one of system resources and network resources. Determining the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display may include identifying a metric for use when determining the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display. The metric may include at least one of a Euclidian distance a virtual distance a size of the object a z axis of the object and a visibility of the object. The first reference point may include another object on the display. The display may include at least a primary display and secondary display and wherein determining the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display may include identifying whether the object is on one of the primary display and the secondary display. The one or more properties of the application may be isolated based upon at least in part identifying that the object is on the secondary display.

In another implementation a computer program product resides on a computer readable storage medium that has a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions cause the processor to perform operations comprising identifying a first reference point on a display. A second reference point of an object of an application is identified wherein the object is on the display. A distance is determined of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display. One or more properties of the application is adjusted based upon at least in part the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display.

One or more of the following features may be included. The one or more adjusted properties of the application may include at least one of system resources and network resources. Determining the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display may include identifying a metric for use when determining the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display. The metric may include at least one of a Euclidian distance a virtual distance a size of the object a z axis of the object and a visibility of the object. The first reference point may include another object on the display. The display may include at least a primary display and secondary display and wherein determining the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display may include identifying whether the object is on one of the primary display and the secondary display. The operations may further comprise isolating the one or more properties of the application based upon at least in part identifying that the object is on the secondary display.

In another implementation a computing system includes a processor and a memory configured to perform operations comprising identifying a first reference point on a display. A second reference point of an object of an application is identified wherein the object is on the display. A distance is determined of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display. One or more properties of the application is adjusted based upon at least in part the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display.

One or more of the following features may be included. The one or more adjusted properties of the application may include at least one of system resources and network resources. Determining the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display may include identifying a metric for use when determining the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display. The metric may include at least one of a Euclidian distance a virtual distance a size of the object a z axis of the object and a visibility of the object. The first reference point may include another object on the display. The display may include at least a primary display and secondary display and wherein determining the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display may include identifying whether the object is on one of the primary display and the secondary display. The operations may further comprise isolating the one or more properties of the application based upon at least in part identifying that the object is on the secondary display.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present disclosure may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The computer usable or computer readable storage medium including a storage device associated with a computing device or client electronic device may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a media such as those supporting the internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be a suitable medium upon which the program is stored scanned compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. The computer readable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the internet wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. Java and all Java based trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Oracle and or its affiliates. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language PASCAL or similar programming languages as well as in scripting languages such as Javascript or PERL. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of apparatus systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be understood that each block in the flowchart and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart and or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable computer program instructions for implementing the specified logical function s act s . These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the computer program instructions which may execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create the ability to implement one or more of the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof. It should be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block s may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed not necessarily in a particular order on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts not necessarily in a particular order specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof

Referring to there is shown adjustment process that may reside on and may be executed by a computer e.g. client computer which may be connected to a network e.g. network e.g. the internet or a local area network . Examples of client computer may include but are not limited to a personal computer s a laptop computer s mobile computing device s a server computer a series of server computers a mainframe computer s or a computing cloud s . Client computer may execute an operating system for example but not limited to Microsoft Windows Mac OS X Red Hat Linux or a custom operating system for example. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Mac and OS X registered trademarks of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both .

As will be discussed below in greater detail adjustment process may identify e.g. by a processor a first reference point on a display. A second reference point of an object of an application may be identified wherein the object may be on the display. A distance may be determined of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display. One or more properties of the application may be adjusted based upon at least in part the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display.

The instruction sets and subroutines of adjustment process which may be stored on storage device coupled to client computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown included within client computer . Storage device may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM .

Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

Adjustment process may be accessed via client applications . Adjustment process may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script that may interact with and or be executed within client applications . Examples of client applications may include but are not limited to a system and network management application an anti virus application a media player application a web conferencing application video conferencing application voice over IP application or other application that allow for virtual meeting and or remote collaboration a standard and or mobile web browser an email client application a textual and or a graphical user interface a customized web browser a plugin or a custom application. The instruction sets and subroutines of client applications which may be stored on storage devices coupled to client electronic devices may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown incorporated into client electronic devices .

Storage devices may include but are not limited to hard disk drives flash drives tape drives optical drives RAID arrays random access memories RAM and read only memories ROM . Examples of client electronic devices may include but are not limited to a personal computer e.g. client electronic device a laptop computer e.g. client electronic device a smart phone e.g. client electronic device a notebook computer e.g. client electronic device a tablet not shown a server not shown a data enabled cellular telephone not shown a television e.g. smart television not shown and a dedicated network device not shown . Client electronic devices may each execute an operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Android Apple iOS Mac OS X Red Hat Linux or a custom operating system.

One or more of client applications may be configured to effectuate some or all of the functionality of adjustment process and vice versa . Accordingly adjustment process may be a purely server side application a purely client side application or a hybrid server side client side application that is cooperatively executed by one or more of client applications and adjustment process .

Users may access client computer and adjustment process directly through network or through secondary network . Further client computer may be connected to network through secondary network as illustrated with phantom link line . Adjustment process may include one or more user interfaces such as browsers and textual or graphical user interfaces through which users may access adjustment process .

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example client electronic device is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Further client electronic device is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Client electronic device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between client electronic device and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between client electronic device and WAP . Client electronic device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between client electronic device and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network .

As is known in the art all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. As is known in the art Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers smart phones and other electronic devices to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection.

Referring also to there is shown a diagrammatic view of client electronic device . While client electronic device is shown in this figure this is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to be a limitation of this disclosure as other configuration are possible. For example any computing device capable of executing in whole or in part adjustment process may be substituted for client electronic device within examples of which may include but are not limited to client computer and client electronic devices .

Client electronic device may include a processor and or microprocessor e.g. microprocessor configured to e.g. process data and execute the above noted code instruction sets and subroutines of adjustment process . Microprocessor may be coupled via a storage adaptor not shown to the above noted storage device . An I O controller e.g. I O controller may be configured to couple microprocessor with various devices such as keyboard pointing selecting device e.g. mouse USB ports not shown and printer ports not shown . A display adaptor e.g. display adaptor may be configured to couple display e.g. CRT or LCD monitor s with microprocessor while network controller adaptor e.g. an Ethernet adaptor may be configured to couple microprocessor to the above noted network e.g. the Internet or a local area network .

As discussed above and referring also to adjustment process may identify e.g. by a processor a first reference point on a display. A second reference point of an object of an application may be identified by adjustment process wherein the object may be on the display. Adjustment process may determine a distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display. One or more properties of the application may be adjusted by adjustment process based upon at least in part the distance of the first reference point on the display from the second reference point of the object on the display.

For instance assume for example purposes only that a user e.g. user is viewing display via client electronic device . Adjustment process may identify a first reference point on display . For example the first reference point may be the center of display e.g. display center . Display center may be e.g. the intersection between the x axis and the y axis of display . As used herein reference points on the display objects on the display and the like refer to points or objects included within a display output rendered on a display device by a computing device.

On display adjustment process may identify a second reference point of an object of an application. For instance further assume in the example that one or more client applications are running on client electronic device . One of the client applications e.g. client application may include a window e.g. window rendered in display . Window may include e.g. a separate window or a pop up window. Adjustment process may identify a second reference point of an object e.g. window of client application . For example adjustment process may identify the center of window i.e. window center as the second reference point. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the object need not be a window and may be any object e.g. an icon and or point capable of being identified on display .

Adjustment process may determine a distance of the first reference point on display from the second reference point of the object on display . For example adjustment process may determine that the distance from display center and window center is L.

One or more properties of client application may be adjusted by adjustment process based upon at least in part the above described distance L of the first reference point on display e.g. display center from the second reference point of the object on display e.g. window center . For instance assume for example purposes only that a second client application e.g. client application is also running on client electronic device . Client application may include a window e.g. window rendered in display . Window may include e.g. a separate window or a pop up window. Similarly as discussed above adjustment process may identify a third reference point of window of client application . For example adjustment process may identify the center of window i.e. window center as the third reference point e.g. of client application . Similarly as discussed above adjustment process may determine that the distance from display center and window center is L.

In the example adjustment process may compare L and L to determine whether window center is closer to display center or whether window center is closer to display center . In some embodiments because L is closer to display center than L adjustment process may adjust the properties of client application such that e.g. at least a portion of resources currently allocated to client application are allocated to client application . In some example embodiments the allocation of resources to client application may be described as e.g. L L L and the allocation of resources to client application may be described as e.g. L L L however the example allocation of resources is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure as differing allocation structures are possible.

The properties adjusted by adjusting process may include e.g. the allocation of system resources allocated to one or more application processes and or other application properties such as CPU and or memory storage allocation priority niceness local remote data access visual resolution quality volume etc. For instance in the above example because L is closer to display center than L adjustment process may adjust the properties of client application such that at least some of the currently allocated CPU resources used by client application may be allocated to client application . As another example assume that client application is a web browser that may be streaming video and client application is a media player that may be streaming music. Because L is closer to display center than L adjustment process may adjust the properties of client application such that at least some of the volume dedicated to client application is reduced and the volume dedicated to client application is increased respectively.

Additionally alternatively the properties adjusted by adjusting process may include e.g. the allocation of network resources allocated to one or more application processes and or other application properties such as network bandwidth network priority etc. For instance continuing with the above example where client application is a web browser streaming video and client application is a media player that is streaming music because L is closer to display center than L adjustment process may adjust the properties of client application such that at least some of the bandwidth being used by client application is reduced and the bandwidth being used by client application is increased respectively.

In some embodiments determining the distance of the first reference point on display from the second reference point of the object on display may include adjustment process identifying a metric for use when determining the distance of the first reference point on display from the second reference point of the object on display . For instance the metric used to determine the distance of display center from window center in one or more of the above examples may include the Euclidian distance i.e. the ordinary straight line distance between two points .

In some embodiments the metric used to determine the distance of the first reference point on display from the second reference point of the object on display may include a z axis of the object such as window and or a size of window . For instance assume for example purposes only that adjustment process identifies the first reference point on display as another location on window such as window bottom center . In the example the distance L between window bottom center and the second reference point e.g. window center may be dependent upon the size of window . Further in the example assume that user uses e.g. mouse to shrink the size of window . As such the distance L between window bottom center and window center may decrease which may result in adjustment process adjusting the properties of client application . For instance in the above example where client application is a web browser that may be streaming video adjustment process may adjust the properties of client application such that at least some of the volume dedicated to client application may be reduced as the distance L between window bottom center and window center decreases. Conversely adjustment process may adjust the properties of client application such that at least some of the volume dedicated to client application may be increased as the distance L between window bottom center and window center increases.

In some embodiments and continuing with the above example where client application is a web browser that may be streaming video and client application is a media player that may be streaming music further assume for example purposes only that adjustment process identifies a third reference point on display as another location on window such as window bottom center . Thus the distance between window center and window bottom center is L. Adjustment process may compare L and L. Because L is longer than L adjustment process may adjust the properties of client application such that at least some of the volume dedicated to client application is reduced and the volume dedicated to client application is increased respectively.

In some embodiments the metric used to determine the distance of the first reference point on display from the second reference point of the object on display may include a visibility of the object. For example and continuing with the above example where client application is a web browser that may be streaming video and client application is a media player that may be streaming music according to some of the above embodiments because L may be closer to display center than L adjustment process may adjust the properties of client application such that at least some of the currently allocated CPU resources used by client application may be allocated to client application . However further assume for example purposes only that user uses mouse to move window such that window obstructs at least a portion of window from being seen by user . In the example even though L may be closer to display center than L because window obstructs at least a portion of window from being seen by user adjustment process may adjust the properties of client application such that at least some of the volume dedicated to client application is reduced and the volume dedicated to client application is increased respectively. Additionally alternatively any cause of the obstruction of window e.g. minimizing window may similarly result in at least some of the volume dedicated to client application being reduced and the volume dedicated to client application being increased respectively.

In some embodiments the metric used to determine the distance of the first reference point on display from the second reference point of the object on display may include a virtual distance. For instance assume for example purposes only that display includes at least two different monitors e.g. a primary display and a secondary display . Further assume that user e.g. via adjustment process has defined the priority of primary display as the primary monitor and defined the priority of secondary display as the secondary monitor. In some example embodiments the allocation of resources to client application may be described as e.g. L L P L and the allocation of resources to client application may be described as e.g. P L L P L where P is the secondary screen priority. If P is smaller than 1 the secondary screen priorities may be decreased. The example allocation of resources is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure as differing allocation structures are possible.

In the example determining the distance of the first reference point on display from the second reference point of the object on the display may include adjustment process identifying whether the object is on one of primary display and secondary display . For example adjustment process may identify that window is displayed on primary display . As such similarly to some of the above examples adjustment process may determine that the distance from display center and window center is L. Continuing with the example adjustment process may identify that window is displayed on secondary display . In some embodiments adjustment process may determine that the distance from display center and window center is a virtual distance of L. Adjustment process may compare L and L and may adjust the properties of client application and or client application in a similar manner as discussed above.

In some embodiments adjustment process may isolate one or more properties of the application based upon at least in part identifying that the object is on the secondary display. For example and continuing with the above example where adjustment process identifies that window is displayed on secondary display adjustment process may e.g. set P 0 for the secondary screen priority to create an isolated area and to isolate the properties of client application . For instance adjustment process may partially or completely reduce the properties allocated to client application when adjustment process identifies that window is on secondary display . Conversely adjustment process may partially or completely reduce the properties allocated to client application when adjustment process identifies that window is on secondary display

While the first reference point has been described as the center of display i.e. center display those skilled in the art will appreciate that the first reference point may be any location on display . For example the first reference point may be e.g. in the upper left quadrant of display . Furthermore the first reference point may include another object on display . For example the first reference point may include at least a portion of window or may include at least a portion of window . As such the description of the first reference point being center display should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of the disclosure.

While the present disclosure is described using two client applications those skilled in the art will appreciate that any number of client applications as well as applications transparent to the user may also be taken into consideration when adjusting application properties. Moreover more than one client application need not be running simultaneously to implement the present disclosure. For instance using one of the above examples where client application may be a web browser streaming video the volume level of client application may be adjusted by adjustment process such that as L becomes smaller the volume level may be increased and as L becomes larger the volume level may be decreased. Therefore the description of using two client applications should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of the disclosure.

The properties that may be adjusted by adjustment process how the properties are adjusted and how much the properties may be adjusted may be based at least in part on default settings or user specified settings.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that adjustment process may interact with a kernel one of the above noted operating system operating on client electronic device to adjust properties. Adjustment process may also e.g. issue system commands and or interact with an Application Programming Interface API of each respective client application to adjust properties. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that adjustment process may adjust properties on the fly when e.g. either client application and or is initially opened and or when either window and or changes e.g. position . An example of this may be shown in . Additionally alternatively user via adjustment process may adjust properties in response to user initiating the adjustment e.g. via a user interface not shown after either window and or has changed position.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps not necessarily in a particular order operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps not necessarily in a particular order operations elements components and or groups thereof

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications variations and any combinations thereof will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The embodiment s were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiment s with various modifications and or any combinations of embodiment s as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the disclosure of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiment s thereof it will be apparent that modifications variations and any combinations of embodiment s including any modifications variations and combinations thereof are possible without departing from the scope of the disclosure defined in the appended claims.

