---

title: Arrangement for the passive capture of a broken saw chain
abstract: An arrangement to capture passively a broken saw chain of a chain saw with a guide bar that is arranged such that it can pivot, including a stationary screen that forms part of a sawing box and that covers a rear part of the saw. In order to achieve an inexpensive and efficient protection there is arranged between an end surface of the screen and the guide bar an energy-absorbing brake member that is sufficiently elastic or flexible to receive the kinetic energy from a broken saw chain, to direct kinetic energy away from the chain and to regain its normal form after it has suffered an impact from and been deformed by the chain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09656406&OS=09656406&RS=09656406
owner: KOMATSU FOREST AB
number: 09656406
owner_city: Umeå
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20131205
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage patent application of PCT SE2013 051457 filed on Dec. 5 2013 which claims priority to Swedish Patent Application No. 1251414 7 filed on Dec. 13 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention concerns an arrangement for the passive capture of a broken saw chain. The invention concerns also a tree harvester.

Saw chains of chain saws mounted at harvesters of the single grip type for the felling and processing of tree trunks often run with large peripheral speeds around the guide bar. The saw arrangement that carries out the sawing is mounted in the protection of a shielded sawing box. A conventional saw arrangement comprises a frame a saw motor a driving wheel a guide bar a saw chain a holder for the guide bar and an element to feed the guide bar out of and into the sawing box. The saw motor is arranged to drive the driving wheel and to rotate the saw chain around the guide bar that can pivot during the sawing operation. The guide bar is so located in the sawing box that its pathway of motion is not obstructed by the sawing box. The sawing box is provided with openings that allow sawdust to leave the box.

A dangerous situation that can arise during sawing is breakage of the saw chain. Situations have arisen in which various parts have become loose from the broken chain and been thrown out at high speed as projectiles. A chain breakage in which parts are thrown out is generally known as a chain shot . The breakage of the chain is caused principally in that a part of the broken saw chain is thrown backwards and is cut off cut or split due to the sudden whiplash effect that the chain part exerts against some end surface in openings in the protective parts of the sawing box. The parts that are thrown out can include saw teeth side links driving links and other parts. Such parts that fly out into the surroundings can cause dangerous situations in particular if people or other work machines are located in the vicinity of the chain shot. At a work location with several harvesters that work at the same time it is not always possible to ensure a minimum safety distance.

In order to reduce the problem of chain shots saw arrangements with various types of chain shot protection have been suggested. One known chain shot protection that is revealed by EP 1 528 852 C has a protective wall that carries out an active pivoting motion together with the guide bar at its rear part. A passive arrangement is known from SE 530 792 C2 that instead of protecting against parts from a split chain ensures as far as possible that a broken chain does not break into parts. In order to achieve this the sawing box is equipped with a screen that has an end surface that has been given a convex curvature with a sufficiently large radius and such a hardness that a part of the broken saw chain is not cut off or split on contact with the end surface but can slide around the end surface essentially unhindered. Due to the large radius the arrangement demonstrates a lack of any sharp edges against which the chain can be split. Due to the hard surface the links of the chain do not cut into the material and are not thus broken off. A timber working head for the cutting of tree trunks is known from SE 517 665. In order to prevent parts from a broken saw chain being thrown out the sawing box is provided at its rear end edge with a shielding wall that carries out an active pivoting motion together with the guide bar. In one execution the actively displaceable shielding wall may be manufactured from an elastic flexible material such as rubber. The shielding wall is pivoted by means of a turning motor that works synchronously with the guide bar during its pivoting motion during a cutting operation. The term passive protection is used to denote such protection as is mounted stationary in the sawing box.

Each one of the arrangements described above has been shown to function well and has probably resulted in that it has been possible to avoid serious accidents. It should however be understood that tree harvesters are advanced units that are subject to heavy effects when working from impacts and collisions and also from contaminants such as dirt dust and sawdust that circulate in the air around the timber working head. Mechanisms that are components of the tree harvester can often be affected by disturbances which lead to unnecessary interruptions in operation. It is therefore desirable to minimise as far as is possible the number of mechanisms and in particular motor driven mechanisms that are components of the timber working head which is in itself already very complex. In particular with respect to the passive arrangement that is revealed by SE 530 792 C2 the extra saw protection mentioned in the introduction at the actively pivoting saw mechanism is unnecessary.

There is however always an aspiration to improve and modify protective arrangements of this type with the aim of achieving both cheaper and more efficient protection.

One purpose of the present invention is to achieve a protective arrangement of the passive type that is both cheaper and more efficient than currently known protective arrangements of corresponding type. A second purpose of the invention is to achieve a tree harvester that demonstrates an improved and more efficient protection against chain shot.

These purposes of the invention are achieved through an energy absorbing protective arrangement that demonstrates the distinctive features and characteristics that are explained below and a tree harvester of the type that is explained below.

According to one examination of the invention an energy absorbing brake means that is mounted stationary in the rear part of the sawing box and that is sufficiently elastic or flexible to receive the kinetic energy from a part of a broken saw chain is used to direct away kinetic energy from the saw chain and to regain its normal form after having suffered an impact from and been deformed by a part of a broken saw chain. In one execution a rear screen of the sawing box is provided with an indentation in the opening of which is arranged an extended energy absorbing element in the form of a flexible element such as a wire chain thread rope tape or similar. In a second execution the flexible element is constituted by an elastic element an elastic line that is fixed at its ends and that cuts the opening in such a manner that it can capture and receive a broken saw chain in a flexible manner. When the elastic element suffers an impact from the saw chain it is bent backwards in a U shaped curve. The elastic element is arranged to offer a braking force during the complete capture manoeuvre that can be progressive and that in this way undergoes a transition to become larger with increasing bending of the elastic element. Since the elastic element lacks mechanical moving parts and driving means which means that it can be regarded as essentially passive water dirt and lubricants do not have any significant influence on the energy absorbing properties of the elastic element.

A tree harvester of a common type is shown in provided with a safety arrangement according to the present invention. The tree harvester has at what is its lower part in the drawing a chain saw that is housed within a sawing box . The chain saw has a guide bar around which runs a saw chain . The saw chain is driven around the guide bar by a drive or a driving wheel by a motor not shown in the drawings located in a rear part of the sawing box . During a cutting operation a pivot mechanism not shown in the drawings pivots the guide bar out from the sawing box while the saw chain that runs around the guide bar at a high speed cuts off a tree trunk that is held fixed in the timber working head. The manner in which the guide bar pivots into and out from the sawing box during cutting is illustrated by the double arrow in .

With reference also to the guide bar fixed into a holder that can be pivoted around an axis of rotation A such that the guide bar can pivot into and out from the sawing box as has been described above whereby the pivoting motion can be so great in certain cases that it reaches a value of 90 . The saw motor is of hydraulic type and has a shaft that drives in turn the driving wheel of the saw chain . The driving wheel which is located in a rear part of the sawing box transfers the power from the saw motor to the saw chain which runs forwards around the guide bar to the vicinity of the driving wheel . The driving wheel is located at a rear end of the chain . The saw chain normally arrives in an essentially straight motion from the guide bar to the vicinity of the driving wheel motion B along a side of the guide bar that during a cutting operation interacts actively with the tree trunk and rotates around the same. The saw chain changes its direction of motion to one that is essentially the opposite whereby the direction of motion is the opposite on the inactive side of the guide bar which faces away from a tree trunk during a cutting operation motion C . The driving wheel is intended to move in a clockwise rotation.

As is made most clear by it may occur that the saw chain breaks during operation. A part of the chain not shown in the drawings can in this case be thrown out from the guide bar when a chain part A of the broken saw chain impacts an end edge of a rear screen of the sawing box and is broken free through a whiplash effect that arises. The part that is freed from the chain part risks in this case being thrown out from the sawing box at high speed as what is known as a chain shot . In order to avoid that a broken saw chain is split and forms a chain shot the present invention comprises a brake means generally denoted by reference number that is located in so close proximity to the chain drive in a rear part of the sawing box that it can capture the chain part A of a broken saw chain . The brake means comprises a material that is sufficiently elastic to receive the kinetic energy from the broken chain part A to direct away kinetic energy from the chain part and to regain its normal form after it has suffered an impact from the chain part and been deformed by the same.

As is made most clear by the enlargement of detail in the screen at the rear end of the sawing box in the close proximity of the driving wheel is provided with an indentation whose width or whose gap is oriented in a plane that is perpendicular to the principal plane of the guide bar . The principal plane of the guide bar is here used to denote the plane in which the guide bar is pivoted into and out from the sawing box . The indentation is essentially U shaped or V shaped and it is limited by two side walls A B that can be regarded as essentially opposite each other. The indentation becomes narrower towards its bottom. In order to capture a saw chain that breaks an energy absorbing brake means is arranged in the indentation . The brake means is sufficiently elastic to receive the kinetic energy from the broken chain to direct away kinetic energy from the chain and to regain its normal form after it has suffered an impact from the chain and been deformed by the same.

In one execution the brake means comprises a line or string formed from an elastic material in particular an elastic line of the type that becomes progressively more rigid as the bending of it increases. The elastic line may be arranged in any suitable manner in the sawing box in order to be able to capture a broken saw chain. The elastic line is in the present embodiment located in the vicinity of the driving wheel preferably at a distance of 25 30 mm from the chain when the guide bar is positioned at its most outwardly pivoted position. The elastic line extends perpendicular to the principal plane of motion of the guide bar during cutting. The elastic line can be located in a region in the screen of the sawing box where the saw chain approaches the driving wheel . The indentation demonstrates an opening that is located in the vicinity of the driving wheel and that is turned towards the guide bar . The indentation forms an opening that is turned towards the part A of the saw chain that is returning to the drive.

The elastic line described above that serves as brake means is illustrated in greater detail in . In order to obtain the required properties the elastic line comprises a core that consists of an elastic material a fiber reinforcement that has been applied around this and an outer covering layer of elastic material whereby the elastic material in the core and in the covering layer consists of synthetic rubber and whereby the fiber reinforcement consists of material that has poorer bending properties than the elastic material of the core. It is appropriate that the fiber reinforcement be wound in a screw form around the core at a specific angle of reinforcement to the longitudinal axis of the line and to the reinforcement projected perpendicular to it. It is preferable that the fiber reinforcement consist of cords or tapes preferably of polyester material. It is an advantage that the fiber reinforcement include two or more layers. In this case the layers can be wound in opposing directions. The elastic line has a core of a suitable elastic material for example EPDM rubber ethylene propylene diene monomer M class rubber . The elastic line can be provided with an outer shell of elastic material with particularly good resistance to weather UV light and chemicals. A suitable elastic line can consist of a core of styrene butadiene rubber with a hardness of 75 IRH and it can demonstrate a diameter of 15 mm comprising a screw wound reinforcement consisting of threads of polyester cord with a suitable angle of reinforcement. The number of threads of polyester cord may be freely chosen for example 24 and the threads are to be wound close to each other. Through selection of suitable curvatures for different angles of reinforcement and curvatures that vary in accordance with this the elastic line can acquire varying degrees of progression of the resistance of the line to bending and the elastic line can in this way be adapted to capture a part A of a broken saw chain in as flexible as manner as is necessary to ensure that there is no risk that it splits and forms chain shots .

As is shown in the elastic line is fixed in a manner that is not shown in detail at its ends such that it extends across the indentation in the rear screen of the sawing box . The locations of the indentation and the elastic line relative to the pivot mechanism of the guide bar have been selected such that the elastic line forms a fictive contact or an end section of the sawing box that can be said to limit the maximal pivoting motion of the guide bar out from the sawing box even if the parts are not intended to come into contact with each other.

In the event of a chain break the brake means will receive a broken part A of a saw chain that may possibly also be falling somewhat downwards in a soft and flexible manner. The part A of the saw chain that is under tension and that is subsequently broken continues its motion and impacts upon the brake means and is collected against the same so softly that the chain part A is not split. The elastic line receives the kinetic energy from a broken chain directs the away kinetic energy from the chain and regain its normal form after it has suffered an impact from the chain and been deformed by the same.

The present invention is not limited to that which has been described above and shown in the drawings it can be changed and modified in several different ways within the scope of the innovative concept defined by the attached patent claims.

