---

title: Aggregating social location information
abstract: In one implementation, user identities who are members of a particular user identity's social network are identified. In addition, data is accessed that reveals locations that at least some of the identified other user identities have registered with the platform as locations that they have visited. A view of an aggregation of at least some of the locations where other user identities who are members of the particular user identity's social network have registered that they have visited is made available for display. In another implementation, data is accessed that reveals residence information for user identities who are members of a particular user identity's social network. Thereafter, a view of an aggregation of at least some of the residence information for the other user identities who are members of the particular user identity's social network is made available for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09124630&OS=09124630&RS=09124630
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09124630
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130416
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 637 802 filed Apr. 24 2012 and titled AGGREGATING SOCIAL LOCATION INFORMATION which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Electronic communications platforms often allow users of the platforms to share information with one another. The volume of information available to individual users within such electronic communications platforms may be relatively large. Consequently an individual user of an electronic communications platform may have difficulty managing or even locating information available to the user within the electronic communications platform. As a result the user may miss gloss over or otherwise fail to appreciate information of some level of significance that is available to the user within the electronic communication platform.

In some implementations location information registered with an electronic social networking platform by members of a user identity s social network e.g. hometowns current residences and or check ins is extracted from the electronic social networking platform. The extracted location information then may be aggregated and made available to the user identity of the electronic social networking platform e.g. via an electronic device and the user identity may be provided with the ability to manipulate the extracted location information. For example the user identity may be provided with the ability to filter the location information based on one or more demographic or other characteristics of the other user identities who registered the location information with the electronic social networking platform.

There are many different examples of electronic social networking platforms. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google MySpace and Orkut are just a few examples. But there are many others and it is reasonable to expect many more to be launched in the future. The techniques described herein for handling data available within an electronic social networking platform are widely applicable and may be applied to data available within any relevant electronic social networking platform.

Electronic social networking platforms frequently enable individual user identities e.g. users who have registered with a platform and or who have been assigned a unique or otherwise identifying identifier by the platform to establish connections with other user identities. These connections between user identities may reflect relationships between the underlying human users who correspond to the user identities. For example a connection between two user identities within an electronic social networking platform may reflect a social friendship e.g. developed through physical interaction in the real world and or through on line interaction in the cyber world or a professional relationship between the underlying human users who correspond to the user identities.

In some electronic social networking platforms a user identity may be able to unilaterally form a connection with another user identity. For example an electronic social networking platform may enable a first user identity to form a connection to a second user identity simply by specifying a desire to form a connection to the second user identity and without requiring approval of the connection by the second user identity. Alternatively in other electronic social networking platforms the formation of connections between two user identities may be a bilateral process. For example in such electronic social networking platforms when a first user identity specifies a desire to form a connection to a second user identity the electronic social networking platform may establish the connection only after the second user identity approves the formation of the connection between the first user identity and the second user identity.

The connections formed between individual user identities within an electronic social networking platform may be represented in the form of a graph where user identities are represented by nodes and connections between user identities are represented by edges connecting the nodes. Such a graph of interconnected user identities may change dynamically in time as new user identities join and old user identities quit the electronic social networking platform and or as new connections are formed and old connections are dissolved. Proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be measured in terms of degrees of separation between the two user identities. For example proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be calculated as the fewest number of edges required to form a path between the two user identities within the graph representing the connections between user identities of the electronic social networking platform.

A user identity of an electronic social networking platform may form a social network within the electronic social networking platform by forming connections to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform. In some cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined as the group of other user identities to whom the particular user identity is directly connected. Alternatively in other cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined to include a group of other user identities that are within a threshold number of degrees of separation of the particular user identity within the graph.

Electronic social networking platforms commonly facilitate sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between user identities and other user identities who are part of their social networks. In some implementations an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access more detailed profile information about the other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network than the electronic social networking platform allows the particular user identity to access about user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network. For example an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access information about the hometowns and or the current cities of residence of other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network but the electronic social networking platform may not allow the particular user identity to access this same information for user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network.

Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide communications conduits between a particular user identity and the other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network that the electronic social networking platform does not otherwise provide between the particular user identity and other user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network.

Furthermore some electronic social networking platforms may enable user identities to record information within the electronic social networking platforms about locations they have visited. In some cases a user identity may be said to record a check in with an electronic social networking platform when the user identity records information within the electronic social networking platform about a location the user identity has visited. Some electronic social networking platforms also may enable user identities to record check ins on behalf of other user identities. For instance some electronic social networking platforms may enable members of a particular user identity s social network to record a check in on behalf of the particular user identity e.g. when the user identities visit a location together . In such scenarios the electronic social networking platform may record the location as a location the particular user identity visited even though the check in at the location was not initiated by the particular user identity.

In addition these electronic social networking platforms may enable a particular user identity to access such information about locations that members of the particular user identity s social network have registered with the social networking platforms. However these electronic social networking platforms may not allow a particular user identity to access similar information about locations that other user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network registered with the social networking platforms. In some electronic social networking platforms when a user identity registers a location that the user identity has visited messages may be broadcast to members of the user identity s social network reporting that the user identity has registered the location as a location that the user identity has visited.

As discussed above in some cases an electronic social networking platform may define a particular user identity s social network as the group of other user identities to whom the user identity is directly connected. If this definition is applied within the electronic social networking platform illustrated in the social network for the user identity represented by node would be defined as the group of other user identities represented by nodes .

In addition to enabling a user identity to establish connections to other user identities and thereby form a social network some electronic social networking platforms may enable a particular user identity to divide the user identity s social network into one or more subsets of user identities who may for example share one or more characteristics of significance to the particular user identity. For example a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may wish to define subsets of user identities within the particular user identity s social network that reflect other user identities with whom the particular user identity has a familial relationship a professional relationship or a social relationship. For ease of reference such defined subsets of a particular user s social network may be referred to herein as Friendlists. 

As further discussed above an electronic social networking application may facilitate the sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between a particular user identity and other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network. For example referring to the electronic social networking platform represented in the electronic social networking application may provide mechanisms that facilitate the exchange of electronic communications between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes who are part of the social network of the user identity represented by node . In some implementations the electronic social networking application may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send private electronic messages to any one or more of the user identities represented by nodes . Furthermore the electronic social networking application also may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to broadcast an electronic message that is shared publicly with all or some defined subset of all such as for example one or more Friendlists of the user identities represented by nodes . Additionally or alternatively the electronic social networking application may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send a directed electronic message to a user identity that is represented by a particular one of nodes . In such cases the recipient user identity of the directed message may determine whether this directed message is shared publicly with other user identities of the electronic social networking platform.

In addition to enabling user identities to establish connections to other user identities some electronic social networking platforms enable user identities to establish connections with other types of objects. For example some social networking platforms may enable user identities to record information about their hometowns current places of residence or places they have visited including geographic locations e.g. such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues local businesses or places e.g. such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. by establishing connections to location objects within the electronic social networking platforms. Additionally or alternatively some social networking platforms may enable user identities to record information about events to which they have been invited are planning to attend and or have attended by establishing connections to event objects within the electronic social networking platforms. Similarly some social networking platforms may enable user identities to record endorsements of non personal enterprises such as for example local businesses or places e.g. restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. companies organizations or institutions brands or products artists bands or public figures forms of entertainment e.g. books music albums movies etc. and causes or communities by establishing connections to non personal enterprise objects within the electronic social networking platforms. In some such electronic social networking platforms non personal enterprise objects may be manifested as so called pages that are maintained by one or more representatives of the non personal enterprise objects and that among other features provide information about the non personal enterprise objects and that provide conduits for enabling interaction between the non personal enterprise objects and the user identities that have formed connections to the non personal enterprise objects. Furthermore some social networking platforms may enable user identities to establish connections with independent applications that leverage the social networking platforms for example by granting the independent applications authorization to access or extract data from the electronic social networking platform on their behalf.

An edge that connects two nodes represents a connection that has been formed between the two objects that are represented by the connected nodes . For example the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections that have been formed between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes . For ease of reference such a connection between two user identity objects in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as a friend connection. 

Similarly the edge that connects node to node represents a connection between the user identity represented by node and the non personal enterprise object represented by node . As discussed above a user of an electronic social networking platform may form a connection to such a non personal enterprise object in order to record an endorsement of the non personal enterprise represented by the object. Therefore for ease of reference connections between a user identity object and a non personal enterprise object in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as an endorsement connection. 

Furthermore the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections that have been formed between the user identity represented by node and the location objects represented by nodes . Depending on the electronic social networking platform a user identity may be able to establish various different types of connections to location objects.

For example in order to store a record of the user identity s hometown the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a hometown connection to a location object that represents the user identity s hometown. Additionally or alternatively in order to store a record of the user identity s current residence the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a current city connection to a location object that represents the user identity s current residence.

Moreover in order to store a record of a place the user identity visited including geographic locations e.g. such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues local businesses or places e.g. such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a check in connection to a location object that represents a place that the user identity visited. In some cases an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually check in at a location. For example a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually define and or search for a location object that corresponds to a location that the user identity is visiting or has visited or plans to visit and create a connection to the location object that corresponds to the location in order to check in at the location. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location in a more intelligent or automated fashion. For instance a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location using a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone or tablet computer using global positioning system GPS and or map data available to the mobile computing device.

Finally the edge that connects node to node represents a connection that has been formed between the user identity represented by node and the event represented by event object . For ease of reference such a connection between a user identity object and an event object may be referred to herein as event connections. 

In some electronic social networking platforms that enable user identities to form connections with object types like location objects event objects and non personal enterprise objects such location objects event objects and or non personal enterprise objects each may be associated with one or more representatives. Furthermore the electronic social networking platforms may enable these representatives to interact with the user identities to whom the objects are connected using the manifestation of the object within the electronic social networking platform. For example a non personal enterprise object within an electronic social networking platform may be manifested as a page that provides information about the non personal enterprise that the object represents and the electronic social networking platform may enable one or more designated representatives associated with the page to share information and exchange electronic communications with the user identities connected to the non personal enterprise object in a manner in which such shared information or exchanged communications appear to involve the page as opposed to an individual user identity. In one particular example the electronic social networking platform may provide a mechanism that enables one or more representatives associated with the non personal enterprise to broadcast an electronic message that is shared publicly with all or some defined subset of all of the user identities to which the non personal enterprise object is connected.

Electronic social networking platforms often enable user identities to maintain user profiles or other collections of data that include information about the user identities to whom they correspond. Such a profile for an individual user identity of an electronic social networking platform may include among other information information about the user identity s hometown current residence age gender relationship status educational background and or professional background. In some electronic social networking platforms at least some of the profile information recorded for an individual user identity may be represented by connections between the user identity and other types of objects within the electronic social networking platforms. For example information about a user identity s hometown and or current residence may be represented as a connection between the user identity and one or more different location objects for example as described above in connection with .

The different examples of electronic social networking platforms described above may provide various different types of user interfaces for interacting with the electronic social networking platforms. In one particular example an electronic social networking platform may provide multiple different GUIs to a user identity to enable the user identity to interact with the underlying electronic social networking platform.

In this example the electronic social networking platform may provide a first GUI to the user identity that among other features presents to the user identity a feed that includes i electronic messages that have been shared with the user identity by other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network and or by other types of objects e.g. location event and non personal enterprise objects to which the user identity is connected and or ii information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network. For ease of reference this feed presented to a user identity in the first GUI provided by the electronic social networking platform may be referred to as the user identity s news feed. 

In addition to the first GUI described above in connection with this example the electronic social networking platform also may provide a second GUI to the user identity that among other features presents to the user identity a feed that includes i electronic messages that have been shared by the personal user identity with members of the personal user identity s social network either in a broadcast or a directed fashion ii electronic messages that were shared with the user identity by members of the user identity s social network and that were directed specifically to the user identity that the user identity nevertheless may allow other members of the user identity s social network to view and iii information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by the user identity. For ease of reference this feed presented to a user identity in the second GUI provided by the electronic social networking platform may be referred to as the user identity s personal feed. 

Referring first to GUI includes a news feed that includes different feed items . The items included within news feed include content and or electronic messages that have been shared with the particular user identity by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. For example item includes a picture and a corresponding message shared with the particular user identity by a member of the particular user identity s social network identified as John. Similarly item includes a message shared with the particular user identity by a member of the particular user identity s social network identified as Jane and item includes a hyperlink to a web page and a corresponding message shared with the particular user identity by a member of the particular user identity s social network identified as Joe. Although not illustrated in in addition to enabling user identities to share pictures and hyperlinks with members of their social networks e.g. as illustrated by items and respectively the electronic social networking platform also may enable user identities to share other types of content with members of their social networks including for example videos.

Items and may represent content and or messages that the particular user identities who shared these items i.e. John Jane and Joe respectively shared generally with multiple members of their own social networks. For ease of reference messages and or content that user identities share as general broadcast messages to multiple members of their social networks such as for example picture and corresponding message of item message of item and hyperlink and corresponding message of item may be referred to herein as status posts. 

In addition to enabling user identities to send general broadcast messages to multiple members of their social networks the electronic social networking platform also may enable user identities to send directed messages to individual user identities within their social networks. Such directed messages may be presented to the user identities to whom they are targeted within the targeted user identities personal feeds and the electronic social networking platform may provide user identities with controls for configuring whether such directed messages also are shared with members of the targeted user identities own social networks. In the event that a targeted user identity selects configuration settings that provide for directed messages to the targeted user to be shared with other members of the targeted user identity s social network such directed messages may be presented to the other members of the targeted user identity s social network in their news feeds. 

Item in the news feed of the GUI for a particular user identity of the electronic social networking platform is an example of a message that was directed to a targeted user identity who is a member of the particular user identity s social network and who selected configuration settings that provided for the directed message to be shared with other members of the targeted user identity s own social network. More particularly message was directed to a member of the particular user identity s social network identified as John by another user identity identified as Jane. Because the user identity identified as John is a member of the particular user identity s social network and because the user identity identified as John selected configuration settings that provide for directed messages that target the user identity identified as John to be shared with other members of his social network the directed message from the user identity identified as Jane to the user identity identified as John is presented in the particular user identity s news feed . The user identity identified as Jane may or may not be a member of the particular user identity s own social network.

 News feed also includes information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. For example item indicates that a user identity identified as Joe checked in at a location identified as World Caf . The location World Caf may be represented as a location object within the electronic social networking platform and may correspond to for example a local restaurant.

The items included within news feed also include content and or electronic messages that have been shared with the particular user identity by other types of objects e.g. location event and non personal enterprise objects to which the user identity is connected. For example item includes a message shared with the particular user identity by a non personal enterprise object identified as MicroStrategy.

If the particular user identity is connected to a large number of non personal enterprise objects that frequently share messages the particular user identity s news feed may be cluttered with messages shared by such non personal enterprise objects. Consequently the particular user identity may miss gloss over or otherwise fail to appreciate messages posted by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. Additionally or alternatively if a large number of items continuously cycle through the particular user identity s news feed the particular user identity may miss gloss over or otherwise fail to appreciate messages of some level of significance to the particular user identity posted by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network.

The items presented in news feed provide mechanisms that enable the particular user identity to react to the objects included within the items presented in news feed . For example as illustrated in each of the items presented in news feed includes a selectable Endorse control and a selectable Comment control . A selectable Endorse control in an item enables the particular user identity to register an endorsement of the object s e.g. content message and or activity included in the item . The electronic social networking platform records such endorsements and may present the number of endorsements registered in connection with the object s presented in an item in connection with the presentation of the item itself. For example item includes an indication that six different user identities have registered endorsements of the picture and message included in item .

A selectable Comment control in an item enables the particular user identity to enter a responsive comment to the object s included in the item . The electronic social networking platform records such responsive comments and associates them with the object s included in the item so that the electronic social networking platform may present any such responsive comments in connection with the presentation of the item itself. For example item includes a message by a user identity identified as Joe that was entered in response to the message originally shared by the user identity identified as Jane.

In addition to news feed GUI also includes a selectable Post Message control a selectable Share Photo Video control and an associated text entry field and selectable Post control . Selectable Post Message control enables the particular user identity to compose and post a status message by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control . Similarly selectable Share Photo Video control enables the particular user identity to share a picture or a video and to compose and post a corresponding status message by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control .

Referring now to GUI includes a personal feed that includes different feed items . The items included within personal feed include content and or electronic messages that the particular user identity shared with other members of the particular user identity s social network. Such content and or electronic messages may include status posts that the particular user identity broadcasted generally to multiple members of the particular user identity s social network responsive comments that the particular user identity entered in response to content and or messages shared by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network and directed messages that the particular user identity shared with specifically targeted individual user identity s who are members of the particular user identity s social network.

For example item includes a status post that the particular user identity broadcasted generally to multiple members of the particular user identity s social network. Similarly item includes a picture and a corresponding message that the particular user identity broadcasted generally to multiple members of the particular user identity s social network. To the extent that members of the particular user identity s social network enter responsive comments to and or endorse status posts that the particular user identity broadcasts generally to multiple members of the particular user identity s social network any such responsive comments or endorsements also may be presented within personal feed . For example item includes an indication that two user identities have endorsed message . Similarly item includes a message that was entered by a member of the particular user identity s social network identified by the user identity Joe in response to the picture and corresponding message originally posted by the particular user identity.

Meanwhile item includes a responsive comment that the particular user identity entered in response to content and or a message shared by a member of the particular user identity s social network identified by the user identity John. Item also includes a directed message that the particular user identity shared with a specifically targeted member of the particular user identity s social network identified by the user identity Joe.

The items included in personal feed also include content and or messages that were shared with the particular user identity by members of the particular user identity s social network and that were directed specifically to the particular user identity. For example item includes a message that was shared with the particular user identity by a member of the particular user identity s social network identified by user identity Jane and that was directed specifically to the particular user identity.

In addition the items in personal fee also include information about activities engaged in by the particular user identity within the context of the electronic social networking platform. For example item includes an indication that the particular user identity has endorsed a non personal enterprise object identified as MicroStrategy as well as four additional non personal enterprise objects all of which may be manifested within the electronic social networking platform in the form of individual pages. Meanwhile item includes an indication that the particular user identity has established a connection within the electronic social networking platform to the user identity identified as Jane.

In addition to personal feed GUI also includes a profile section with profile information for the particular user identity. As illustrated in profile section indicates that the particular user identity is identified by user identity James and includes profile information that specifies the particular user identity s professional background software developer alma mater Massachusetts Institute of Technology current residence Washington D.C. hometown Chicago and birthday July 4 .

As with GUI GUI also includes a selectable Post Message control a selectable Share Photo Video control and an associated text entry field and selectable Post control . Selectable Post Message control enables the particular user identity to compose and post a status message by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control . Similarly selectable Share Photo Video control enables the particular user identity to share a picture or a video and to compose and post a corresponding status message by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control .

As discussed above the volume of content made available to a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be relatively large potentially leading the particular user identity to miss gloss over or otherwise fail to appreciate information of some level of significance to the particular user identity that is available to the particular user identity within the electronic social networking platform. As described herein a social intelligence service that is external to an electronic social networking platform may extract content from the electronic social networking platform that is available to different user identities of the electronic social networking platform. Thereafter the social intelligence service may process the extracted content and represent the extracted content and or generate reports about the extracted content so as to enable the individual user identities to glean better intelligence from the large volume of content shared with them within the electronic social networking platform. For example a social intelligence service may extract location information that is relevant to a particular user identity of an electronic social networking application e.g. hometowns current residences and or check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network and represent the extracted location information and or generate reports about the extracted location information so as to enable the particular user identity to glean better intelligence about the location information than the particular user identity otherwise may be able to do within the electronic social networking platform.

As illustrated in communications system includes an electronic social networking platform that is accessible to a number of computing devices including for example a laptop computer a tablet computer and a smartphone over a network . In addition communications system also includes a computing system . Computing system may be external to electronic social networking platform . As such electronic social networking platform may be accessible to computing system over network . Additionally computing system may be accessible to computing devices over network .

Electronic social networking platform may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers configured to provide a service to one or more client devices e.g. computing devices connected to electronic social networking platform over network . The one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features of an electronic social networking platform . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data. Electronic social networking platform also may provide an application programming interface API that enables other applications to interact with and extract data from the electronic social networking platform .

Computing devices may be any of a number of different types of computing devices including for example mobile phones smartphones personal digital assistants laptop tablet and netbook computers and desktop computers including personal computers special purpose computers general purpose computers and or combinations of special purpose and general purpose computers. Each of the computing devices typically may have internal or external storage components for storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. In particular the internal or external storage components for each of the computing devices may store a client application for interfacing with electronic social networking platform and or a client application for interfacing with computing system . Additionally or alternatively computing devices may be configured to interface with electronic social networking platform or computing system without a specific client application using for example a web browser.

Each of the computing devices also typically may include a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . Each of the computing devices also usually may include one or more communication devices for sending and receiving data. One example of such communications devices is a modem. Other examples include antennas transceivers communications cards and other network adapters capable of transmitting and receiving data over a network e.g. network through a wired or wireless data pathway.

Network may provide direct or indirect communication links between electronic social networking platform computing devices and computing system . Examples of network include the Internet the World Wide Web wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs including wireless LANs WLANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanisms for carrying data.

Computing system may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers . The one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features ascribed herein to the computing system . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data.

Computing system may host a social intelligence application. As such computing system may be configured to extract and process data from one or more electronic social networking platforms e.g. electronic social networking platform . For example computing system may be configured to exploit API to extract data from electronic social networking platform . Among other features computing system may be configured to extract data about multiple different user identities social networks including i information about the members of each user identity s social network ii communications shared with each user identity as well as communications shared with each member of the user identity s social network iii information about non personal enterprise objects that each user identity has endorsed as well as information about non personal enterprise objects that each member of the user identity s social network has endorsed iv information about locations where each user identity has checked in as well as information about locations where each member of the user identity s social network has checked in and v information about events to which each user identity has been invited as well as information about events to which each member of the user identity s social network has been invited.

In some implementations electronic social networking platform may enable individual user identities to grant computing system a token that defines permission levels related to data about the user identities social networks that computing system may access and extract from electronic social networking platform . For each individual user identity for which computing system has a token computing system may extract information about the user identity and the other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network. This information may include identifying information for the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network as well as demographic information for the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network e.g. hometown current residence age or date of birth gender relationship status etc. . For each individual user identity for which computing system has a token computing system also may extract communications that have been shared with the user identity information about non personal enterprise objects the user identity has endorsed information about locations where the user identity has checked in and or information about events to which the user identity has been invited. Additionally or alternatively for each individual user identity for which computing system has a token computing system also may extract communications that have been shared with members of the user identity s social network information about non personal enterprise objects that members of the user identity s social network have endorsed information about locations where members of the user identity s social network have checked in and or information about events to which members of the user identity s social network have been invited.

In some implementations after extracting data from electronic social networking platform computing system may store the extracted data in one more databases. For example computing system may store information extracted from electronic social networking platform in one or more on line transaction processing OLTP databases. Such OLTP databases may be implemented as relational or other forms of databases Computing system then may process the extracted data stored in the database s and load the processed data into a data warehouse e.g. an on line analytical processing OLAP data warehouse that may facilitate reporting and analysis of the processed data. Computing system then may provide individual user identities for which computing system has tokens with access to subsets of the processed data that correspond to data extracted from electronic social networking platform using their tokens.

For example for each individual user identity for which computing system has a token computing system may provide the individual user identity with access to processed information about communications that were shared with the user identity as well as communications that were shared with members of the user identity s social network. Additionally or alternatively computing system may provide the user identity with access to processed information about non personal enterprise objects the user identity endorsed as well as non personal enterprise objects that members of the user identity s social network endorsed. Computing system also may provide the user identity with access to processed information about locations where the user identity has checked in and processed information about locations where members of the user identity s social network have checked in as well as processed information about hometowns and current residences of members of the user identity s social networks. Moreover computing system also may provide the user identity with access to processed information about events to which the user identity has been invited as well as processed information about events to which members of the user identity s social network have been invited.

The individual user identities may utilize various different computing devices e.g. computing devices communicatively coupled to computing system via network to access the subsets of the processed data made available to the user identities by computing system . In addition to providing individual user identities with access to the processed data computing system also may provide these individual user identities with various analysis and reporting tools for manipulating the data included within the subsets of the processed data to which the individual user identities are provided access. Additionally or alternatively such analysis and reporting tools may be provided within a client application resident on a computing device that an individual user identity uses to access the processed data made available by computing system . Among other reporting and analysis tools computing system and or the client application used to access computing system may provide the user identities with filtering tools that enable the user identity to identify different segments of members within the user identity s social network e.g. based on demographic characteristics such as current residence age gender and or relationship status and analyze different aspects of the processed data e.g. shared communications endorsements location information and event information relative to such segments.

A social intelligence application that provides individual user identities of an electronic social networking platform with access to the extracted and processed data as described above and or that provides the individual user identities with reporting and analysis tools for manipulating such extracted and processed data may enable the individual user identities to glean better intelligence from the wealth of data available to them within the electronic social networking platform.

Location information registered with an electronic social networking platform by members of an individual user identity s social network e.g. hometowns current residences and or check ins may be one example of data that is available to an individual user identity that includes a wealth of potentially relevant or valuable information that the individual user identity may fail to appreciate due to the sheer volume of location information available to the user identity and or the scattered nature of the location information within the electronic social networking platform. As described herein a social intelligence application may extract location information registered with an electronic social networking platform by members of a particular user identity s social network from the electronic social networking platform. Thereafter the social intelligence application may provide the individual user identity with mechanisms for filtering the extracted location information for example based on one or more characteristics of the members of the particular user identity s social network who registered the location information.

Referring first to GUI provides a view of aggregated hometown information for user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. In particular GUI lists the various different hometowns of the user identities of the particular user identity s social network column and indicates the number of user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network who hail from each of the identified hometowns column . In addition GUI presents aggregated demographic information about the user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network who hail from each of the hometowns identified in column . For example GUI indicates the average age of the user identities who hail from each hometown column the percentage of the user identities who hail from each hometown who are female column the percentage of the user identities who hail from each hometown who are male column the percentage of the user identities who hail from each hometown who have registered that they are single with the electronic social networking platform column and the percentage of the user identities who hail from each hometown who have registered that they are in a relationship with the electronic social networking platform .

Depending upon the screen real estate available the aggregated hometown information presented within the view provided by GUI as illustrated in may extend beyond the visible borders of the GUI . Consequently GUI may enable a user to scroll the view up or down in order to see additional hometown information presented by the GUI in the view illustrated in .

GUI provides a number of selectable controls that enable the particular user identity to whom GUI is presented to specify filters that should be applied to the location information extracted from the electronic social networking platform by the social intelligence application in order to manipulate the location information that is presented by the social intelligence application within GUI . More particularly GUI provides a selectable Filter control and a selectable By Friendlist control .

As illustrated in in response to invocation of selectable Filter control GUI presents a filter menu that provides controls that enable the particular user identity to specify that the hometown information presented in the view provided by GUI should be filtered according to one or more of i the city state and or country of the current residences of user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network ii the ages of the user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network iii the gender of the user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network and iv the relationship status of the of the user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. In response to manipulation of the filter controls provided within filter menu by the particular user identity the social intelligence application accesses extracted information about the user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network and filters the hometown information presented within GUI to include hometown information for only those user identities who that satisfy the demographic criteria specified by the particular user identity using filter menu .

Referring now to in response to invocation of selectable By Friendlist control GUI presents a filter menu that provides controls that enable the particular user identity to specify that the hometown information presented in the view provided by GUI should be filtered to include hometown information only for user identities who belong to designated subgroups of the particular user identity s social network that the user identity previously identified. In response to manipulation of the filter controls provided within filter menu by the particular user identity the social intelligence application accesses extracted information about the membership of subgroups of the particular user identity s social network and filters the hometown information presented within GUI to include hometown information only for user identities who belong to the designated subgroup s of the particular user identity s social network selected by the particular user identity using filter menu .

The filtering controls provided by each of filter menus and may be used independently of one another and or in combination with one another to define the user identities for whom location information is presented within GUI .

Referring again to GUI also includes a selectable Location Information Type control that enables the particular user identity to whom GUI is presented to select the type of location information that the social intelligence application extracted from the electronic social networking platform that should be presented by the social intelligence application within GUI . As illustrated in in response to invocation of selectable Location Information Type control GUI presents a filter menu that provides controls that enable the particular user identity to select the type of location information that is presented in the view provided by GUI . In particular filter menu enables the particular user identity to select Hometown location information Current City location information or Check In location information.

For example referring now to in response to a selection of Current City location information from filter menu by the particular user identity to whom GUI is presented the social intelligence application repopulates the view of aggregated location information presented in GUI with aggregated current residence information for user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. As illustrated in GUI lists the various different cities of current residence of the user identities of the particular user identity s social network column and indicates the number of user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network who currently reside in each of the cities identified column . In addition GUI presents aggregated demographic information about the user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network who reside in each of the cities identified in column . For example GUI indicates the average age of the user identities who currently reside in each city column the percentage of the user identities who currently reside in each city who are female column the percentage of the user identities who currently reside in each city who are male column the percentage of the user identities who currently reside in each city who have registered that they are single with the electronic social networking platform column and the percentage of the user identities who currently reside in each city who have registered that they are in a relationship with the electronic social networking platform . Continuing to refer to the social intelligence application provides selectable Filter control and selectable By Friendlist control to enable the particular user identity to whom GUI is presented to filter the user identities for whom current residence information is presented within GUI in a manner that is similar to the filtering of hometown information discussed above in connection with .

Referring now to in response to a selection of Check In location information from filter menu by the particular user identity to whom GUI is presented the social intelligence application repopulates the view of aggregated location information presented in GUI with aggregated check in information for user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. As illustrated in GUI lists the various different locations where user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network have registered check ins with the electronic social networking platform column and indicates the number of times user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network have registered check ins at each of the locations identified column . In addition GUI also indicates the number of distinct members of the particular user identity s social network who have registered check ins at each location column as well as the number of members of the particular user identity s social network who have registered multiple check ins at each location column . In some implementations the social intelligence application may limit the check in information presented in GUI to include only information about check ins that have been registered with the electronic social networking platform within some defined window of time e.g. check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform within the last week month year etc. .

As illustrated in GUI also presents aggregated demographic information about the user identities who have registered check ins at each of the locations identified in column . For example GUI indicates the average age of the user identities who have registered check ins at each location column the percentage of the user identities who have registered check ins at each location who are female column the percentage of the user identities who have registered check ins at each location who are male column the percentage of the user identities who have registered check ins at each location who have registered that they are single with the electronic social networking platform column and the percentage of the user identities who have checked in at each location who have registered that they are in a relationship with the electronic social networking platform . Continuing to refer to the social intelligence application provides selectable Filter control and selectable By Friendlist control to enable the particular user identity to whom GUI is presented to filter the user identities for whom check in information is presented within GUI in a manner that is similar to the filtering of the hometown information discussed above in connection with .

Enabling a particular user identity to view and filter aggregated information about check ins registered by members of the particular user identity s social network as discussed above and illustrated in connection with may enable the particular user identity to identify locations that are popular with members of the particular user identity s social networks or with specific segments of the particular user identity s social network . Consequently enabling the particular user identity to view and filter aggregated information about check ins registered by members of the particular user identity s social network may enable the particular user identity to discover new locations to visit and or to make more informed decisions about locations to visit.

Referring first to for each user identity of a set of multiple user identities of an electronic social networking platform the computing system extracts data from the electronic social networking platform that reveals other user identities who are members of the user identities social network . The computing system also stores the extracted data that reveals the other user identities who are members of the social networks of the set of multiple user identities in computer readable storage media . In some implementations the computing system also may extract and store demographic information e.g. current residence age gender and or relationship status about the other user identities who are members of the social networks of the set of multiple user identities.

In addition for each user identity of the set of multiple user identities the computing system extracts data that reveals locations where other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network have registered that they have visited with the electronic social networking platform . For example in some implementations the computing system extracts data that reveals locations where other user identities who are members of the social networks of the set of multiple user identities have registered check ins with the electronic social networking platform. The extracted data that reveals locations where the other user identities have registered check ins with the electronic social networking platform also may reveal numbers of times that each of the other user identities has registered check ins at each of the different locations. The computing system also stores the extracted data that reveals the locations where other user identities who are members of the social networks of the set of user identities have registered that they have visited in computer readable storage media .

Furthermore for any user identity of the set of multiple user identities the computing system also makes available for display a view of an aggregation of at least some of the locations that the other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network have registered that they have visited . For example as described above in connection with the computing system may make the view of the aggregation of the locations that the other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network have registered that they have visited available for display via a GUI such as for example GUI that is displayed on a computing device that is communicatively coupled to the computing system e.g. by a network connection .

In some implementations the computing system also may determine the number of distinct members of the user identity s social network who have visited each location included in the aggregation and make this information available for display as well. Additionally or alternatively the computing system may determine the number of members of the user identity s social network who have visited individual locations included in the aggregation multiple times and make this information available for display as well.

Furthermore in some implementations the computing system also may aggregate demographic information e.g. current residence age gender and or relationship status about members of the user identity s social network who have visited each location and make such aggregated demographic information available for display as well. Additionally or alternatively the computing system also may enable the user identity to specify that the view of the aggregation of the locations that members of the user identity s social network have registered that they have visited be filtered according to certain demographic characteristics of the members of the user identity s social network who registered that they have visited the locations. In response to a request to perform such filtering the computing system may identify the members of the user identity s social network who satisfy the demographic criteria specified by the user identity and limit the check in information included in the aggregated view to check ins registered by members of the user identity s social network who satisfy the demographic criteria specified by the user identity.

Referring now to in another example of a process for applying social intelligence techniques to location information relevant to a particular user identity within an electronic social networking platform the computing system identifies user identities who are members of a particular user identity s social network within an electronic social networking platform . In some implementations the computing system also may access demographic information e.g. current residence age gender and or relationship status about the other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network.

The computing system also accesses data that reveals locations that at least some of the user identities identified as members of the particular user identity s social network have registered with the electronic social networking platform as locations that they have visited . For example in some implementations the computing system accesses data that reveals locations where other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network have registered check ins with the electronic social networking platform. This data also may reveal numbers of times that each of the other user identities has registered check ins at each of the different locations.

The computing system also makes available for display a view of an aggregation of at least some of the locations where other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network have registered that they have visited . For example as described above in connection with the computing system may make the view of the aggregation of the locations that the members of the particular user identity s social network have registered that they have visited available for display via a GUI such as for example GUI that is displayed on a computing device that is communicatively coupled to the computing system e.g. by a network connection .

In some implementations the computing system also may determine the number of distinct members of the particular user identity s social network who have visited each location included in the aggregation and make this information available for display as well. Additionally or alternatively the computing system may determine the number of members of the particular user identity s social network who have visited individual locations included in the aggregation multiple times and make this information available for display as well.

Furthermore in some implementations the computing system also may aggregate demographic information e.g. current residence age gender and or relationship status about members of the particular user identity s social network who have visited each location and make such aggregated demographic information available for display as well. Additionally or alternatively the computing system also may enable the particular user identity to specify that the view of the aggregation of the locations that members of the particular user identity s social network have registered that they have visited be filtered according to certain demographic characteristics of the members of the particular user identity s social network who registered that they have visited the locations. In response to a request to perform such filtering the computing system may identify the members of the particular user identity s social network who satisfy the demographic criteria specified by the particular user identity and limit the check in information included in the aggregated view to check ins registered by members of the particular user identity s social network who satisfy the demographic criteria specified by the particular user identity.

Referring now to in another example of a process for applying social intelligence techniques to location information relevant to a particular user identity within an electronic social networking platform the computing system extracts data from an electronic social networking platform that reveals user identities who are members of a particular user identity s social network and stores this data in computer readable storage media .

In addition the computing system extracts data from the electronic social networking platform that reveals residence information e.g. hometown and or current residence that the other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network have registered with the electronic social networking platform and stores this data in computer readable storage media .

The computing system also extracts data about additional demographic characteristics e.g. age gender and or relationship status of the other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network and stores this data in computer readable storage media .

Thereafter the computing system makes available for display a view of an aggregation of at least some of the residence information that the other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network have registered with the platform . For example as described above in connection with the computing system may make a view of an aggregation of hometown information that the other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network have registered with the platform available for display via a GUI such as for example GUI that is displayed on a computing device that is communicatively coupled to the computing system e.g. by a network connection . Additionally or alternatively as described above in connection with the computing system may make a view of an aggregation of current residence information that the other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network have registered with the platform available for display via a GUI such as for example GUI that is displayed on a computing device that is communicatively coupled to the computing system e.g. by a network connection .

Furthermore in some implementations for each location for which members of the particular user identity s social network have registered residence information the computing system also may aggregate demographic information e.g. age gender and or relationship status about members of the particular user identity s social network who registered residence information for the location and make such aggregated demographic information for each location included in the view available for display as well.

The computing system also enables filtering of the aggregation of the residence information that the other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network have registered with the electronic social networking platform based on one or more of the additional demographic characteristics e.g. age gender and or relationship of the other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network . In response to a request to perform such filtering the computing system may identify the members of the particular user identity s social network who satisfy the demographic criteria specified by the particular user identity and limit the residence information included in the aggregated view to residence information registered by members of the particular user identity s social network who satisfy the demographic criteria specified by the particular user identity.

A number of methods techniques systems and apparatuses have been described. Nevertheless various modifications may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. For example although various social intelligence techniques generally are disclosed herein as being performed externally to an electronic social networking platform in some implementations the various social intelligence techniques disclosed herein may be performed internally by an electronic social networking platform.

The methods techniques systems and apparatuses described herein may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or computer hardware for example by executing instructions stored in tangible computer readable storage media.

Apparatuses implementing these techniques may include appropriate input and output devices a computer processor and or tangible computer readable storage media storing instructions for execution by a processor.

A process implementing techniques disclosed herein may be performed by a processor executing instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium for performing desired functions by operating on input data and generating appropriate output. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Suitable computer readable storage devices for storing executable instructions include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as fixed floppy and removable disks other magnetic media including tape and optical media such as Compact Discs CDs or Digital Video Disks DVDs . Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

Although the operations of the disclosed techniques may be described herein as being performed in a certain order and or in certain combinations in some implementations individual operations may be rearranged in a different order combined with other operations described herein and or eliminated and the desired results still may be achieved. Similarly components in the disclosed systems may be combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components and the desired results still may be achieved.

