---

title: Growth of cubic crystalline phase strucure on silicon substrates and devices comprising the cubic crystalline phase structure
abstract: A semiconductor device is disclosed. The semiconductor device includes a substrate comprising a groove. A buffer layer is formed on a surface of the groove. The buffer layer comprising at least one material chosen from AIN, GaN or AlGaN, where x is between zero and one. An epitaxially grown semiconductor material is disposed over the buffer layer, at least a portion of the epitaxially grown semiconductor material having a cubic crystalline phase structure. Methods of forming the semiconductor devices are also taught.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09520472&OS=09520472&RS=09520472
owner: STC.UNM
number: 09520472
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 642 680 filed on May 4 2012 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. EEC 0812056 from the National Science Foundation. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present application is directed to a method of growing cubic crystalline phase structure and devices made therefrom.

III N semiconductors are promising optoelectronic materials whose direct bandgap optical emission spans the ultraviolet to infrared. Despite the impressive progress of visible light emitting diodes LEDs in the nitride material system over the past two decades two major issues are widely recognized 1 the green gap and 2 efficiency droop. The green gap refers to the fact that today s InGaN LEDs emitting in the green have lower efficiencies than comparable devices in the blue or to red LEDs in the AlInGaP material system. This is an issue since the sensitivity of the human eye peaks in the green. Efficiency droop is the reduction in efficiency at high drive levels suitable for illumination. The exact origins of these effects are not fully understood but often the polarization fields in the InGaN wurtzite material system are thought to be a root cause.

GaN and alloys including AlGaN and InGaN or GaInN exhibit both hexagonal wurtzite and cubic e.g. zinc blende phases. As used herein the terms AlGaN InGaN and GaInN are shorthand notations common in the field for AlGaN InGaN and GaInN. For GaN and InGaN the hexagonal h GaN phase is energetically preferred and with a few exceptions all device applications including high power transistors light emitting diodes LEDs and laser diodes have been developed with h GaN material.

There are potential advantages to cubic c GaN material. One advantage is that the 001 direction i.e. the direction of growth on the 001 crystal face is not only free of spontaneous polarization but also free of piezo electric polarization. The bandgap of the cubic nitrides is slightly smaller than that of the wurtzite polytypes and therefore the band edge emission in bulk crystals of cubic GaInN has longer wavelength than in wurtzite crystals with the same indium concentration. The general absence of internal electric fields in c GaN LEDs can eliminate the redshift associated with the quantum confined Stark effect QCSE .

Another potential benefit of cubic GaN is the high hole mobility which is reported to reach 350 cmVsin cubic GaN on GaAs. A practical advantage of 001 c GaN is that it can be cleaved along the 110 planes which are perpendicular to the 100 growth direction. This could be a major advantage for device fabrication e.g. the fabrication of laser diode devices. Further based on theoretical calculations it has been suggested that the Auger recombination in the blue green region could be smaller in c GaInN structures than in their wurtzite counter part. This could impact the efficiency droop effects.

According to the literature c GaN has been successfully grown by plasma assisted molecular beam epitaxy MBE or MOVPE on different substrates including 3C SiC 6H SiC as super lattice GaAs and Si 001 . Also growth of nano wires with cubic GaN has been demonstrated by MBE. In the case of growth on GaAs large free standing samples with 100 m thickness have been achieved. Novikov et al. Molecular beam epitaxy as a method for the growth of freestanding zinc blende cubic GaN layers and substrates 28 vol. 28 no. 3 pp. C3B1 C3B6 October 2010. However it took those authors around 8 days to grow such material. It remains difficult to keep optimal growth conditions for such long durations and the best material quality was believed to have been achieved only within the first 10 m starting from the substrate. This thickness however would be sufficient for use in LEDs.

Novikov also recently demonstrated the feasibility of growing freestanding cubic GaN with a thickness of more than 50 m on a GaAs substrate of 7.62 cm 3 inch diameter. Zinc blend cubic GaN bulk crystals grown by molecular beam epitaxy . vol. 8 no. 5 pp. 1439 1444 May 2011. Novikov also demonstrated cubic AlGaN layers in a very wide range of alloy compositions. While these are impressive results it is generally agreed that such long growths are not compatible with cost effective manufacturing of LEDs in high volume.

Structures with cubic GaInN GaN multi quantum wells MQW have been reported on 3C SiC where PL emission was observed up to a wavelength of 520 nm. Simple p GaN n GaN junction LEDs have been reported on GaAs. The electroluminescence EL emission at 430 nm was attributed to originate from impurity related recombination and its intensity showed a linear dependence on the drive current density in the range of 50 300 A cm. A p GaN i GaN n AlGaN junction LED emission at 477 nm as well as a double heterojunction LED with GaInN active layer grown on GaAs emission at 430 nm and 470 nm have been demonstrated. It can be inferred from the published EL spectra of these devices that the intensity depends linearly on the drive current. However the total light output power from these devices is not known.

Recently a GaInN GaN LED grown by ammonia MBE has been demonstrated. It was grown on freestanding cubic GaN templates by MBE on GaAs and showed EL around 460 nm. There is also published work on short wavelength devices. Near UV emission at 370 nm in PL from cubic AlGaN GaN multi quantum wells with varying width can be modeled using square well potentials which was interpreted as absence of polarization fields along the 001 direction.

It is fair to say that the above described techniques for growing c group III N compounds have involved isolated efforts that have not been suitable and accepted for device fabrication. Many of the results showed significant levels of defects including uncontrolled spatial variations between c GaN and h GaN materials. The h GaN material remains the better material the most explored for device applications and the only phase used for today s commercial devices.

The epitaxial growth of high quality c group III N compounds at a physical scale applicable to practical device fabrication is also not well established. This is at least partially due to various problems such as uncontrolled phase mixtures with the hexagonal phase and some issues on the selection of substrates for epitaxy related to the mismatch in crystal symmetry and lattice constant. Generally sapphire and SiC have been employed as substrate materials but these are incompatible with the mainstream semiconductor technology that exclusively uses Si 001 substrates. In spite of its predominant use for microelectronics Si has not been extensively investigated as a substrate for c group III Nitrides because of these growth problems and for optical applications because of the intrinsic absorption in any remaining Si after the growth. A successful use of Si as a substrate for c or h III N optical devices would desirably include a process for removal of the substrate material before the device packaging.

An emerging theme in modern crystal growth is the integration of the exquisitely controlled growth capabilities of MBE and MOCVD with developing large area nanoscale lithography capabilities. The useful length scale for the lithography is less than or comparable to an adatom diffusion length during growth. Recently relying on large area nanoscale interferometric lithography the inventors of this disclosure demonstrated the growth of c GaN with a controllable symmetry induced phase separation from the hexagonal phase during growth on a deep sub micron scale Si 111 faceted v groove fabricated into a Si 001 substrate. S. C. Lee et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 84 2004 2079. This proves the availability of the epitaxial growth of c group III N materials on a Si 001 substrate at the nanoscale regime and is directly compatible with current Si microelectronics technology.

Further advancements in growth of c group III N materials that overcome one or more of the deficiencies of current growth techniques such as those mentioned above would be a desirable addition to the field of III N semiconductors.

An embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a semiconductor device. The semiconductor device includes a substrate comprising a groove. A buffer layer is formed on a surface of the groove. The buffer layer comprising at least one material chosen from AlN GaN or AlGaN where x is between zero and one. An epitaxially grown semiconductor material is disposed over the buffer layer at least a portion of the epitaxially grown semiconductor material having a cubic crystalline phase structure.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a method of forming a semiconductor device. The method comprises providing a planar crystalline substrate comprising a groove exposing different crystal faces than the planar surface. A buffer layer is deposited over the substrate. The buffer layer comprises at least one material chosen from AlN GaN or AlGaN where x is between zero and one. A semiconductor layer is epitaxially grown over the buffer layer at least a portion of the epitaxially grown semiconductor layer having a cubic crystalline phase structure.

Additional embodiments and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in part in the description which follows and can be learned by practice of the disclosure. The embodiments and advantages of the disclosure will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the disclosure as claimed.

The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate several embodiments of the disclosure and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the disclosure.

Reference will now be made in detail to various exemplary embodiments of the present application examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

An embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a semiconductor device as illustrated in . The device comprises a substrate . The substrate comprises a groove formed in crystalline semiconductor. The sidewalls of the groove are 111 faces of the crystalline semiconductor. A buffer layer is formed in the groove . The buffer layer comprises at least one material chosen from AlN GaN or AlGaN where x is between zero and one. An epitaxially grown semiconductor layer is disposed over the buffer layer . A portion of the epitaxially grown layer has a cubic crystalline phase structure

Referring to the substrate employed for manufacturing the devices of the present disclosure can be any type of substrate comprising single crystal silicon having a 100 lattice structure. For example the substrate can be a free standing silicon wafer such as those cut from a single crystal boule as is well known in the art. Alternatively the substrate can comprise other materials on which the single crystal silicon material is a portion thereof such as for example a silicon on glass substrate or a silicon epitaxial layer grown on or bonded to a base substrate referred to as silicon on insulator. The silicon can be doped or undoped. In yet another embodiment a substrate comprising GaAs having a 100 lattice structure can be employed.

The substrate comprises at least one groove . The groove can be any shape that provides 111 faceted groove surfaces that are suitable for epitaxial crystal growth of the buffer layer . For example a v groove or a flat bottomed groove can be formed in a silicon or GaAs substrate to provide 111 faceted sidewalls.

Referring to the width of the groove W can range from a few nanometers to any width that will allow formation of the cubic lattice region. In an embodiment W is comparable to a diffusion length of a Ga adatom under the epitaxial growth conditions which is generally several microns or less. In an embodiment the width can be about 3 5 8 or 10 microns or less.

The length of the groove can be any desired length limited only by the size of the available wafer. For example the length of groove can be comparable to the width of groove or longer such as a length ranging from about 10 or 100 times longer to about 1 000 000 times longer than the width of groove .

The groove can be formed by any suitable method that provides the desired 111 faceted surfaces. Examples of suitable methods include lithographic patterning and etching techniques such as interferometric lithography followed by an anisotropic wet etch of the patterned surface using for example KOH or related wet etch chemistries including solvent based chemistries. A variety of other lithographic and etching techniques can be employed as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Referring to buffer layer can be epitaxially grown in groove . In an embodiment the buffer layer comprises an AlN nucleation layer. An AlGaN interlayer can be deposited on the nucleation layer where x can range from 0 to 1 thereby encompassing AlN and GaN for the purpose of growing cubic III nitrides on silicon wafers. In an embodiment x is greater than 0 and less than 1.

Buffer layer plays a part in the overall success of the growth process. Buffer layer can serve as a strain relief layer to increase the crystal quality of the grown cubic III nitride material. Additionally buffer layer can reduce or prevent alloying of the subsequently formed crystal layer with material from the substrate. For example Ga Si alloying has been shown to occur during epitaxial growth of GaN on silicon substrates. An example of the alloying problem is shown in .

The buffer layer can be sufficiently thick to prevent such alloying which can be problematic. On the other hand if buffer layer is too thick cracking of the buffer layer is likely. In an embodiment the thickness of the buffer layer can be in the range for example from sub monolayer up to about 1 m such as about 1 nm to about 1 micron or about 5 nm or 10 nm to about 100 nm or 500 nm.

In an embodiment the concentration of Al and Ga in the buffer layer is graded through at least a portion of the thickness of the buffer layer. In an alternative embodiment the concentration of Al and Ga in buffer layer is substantially constant through the thickness of buffer layer .

In yet another embodiment the concentration of Al and Ga varies in a stepwise manner though at least a portion of the thickness of buffer layer . For example buffer layer can comprise two or more layers with one or more different AlGaN compositions having stepped concentrations. The concentration can be stepped in any desired manner. As an example in one layered portion of the buffer layer x can be about 0.7 and in a second layered portion of the buffer layer x can be about 0.3. Another embodiment can use one or more graded buffer layers where x varies continuously from for example about 1 to zero through the thickness of the layer. The buffer layer may or may not include a nucleation layer such as AlN in addition to the AlGaN layers. In yet another embodiment an AlN layer is employed alone without a Ga containing portion of the buffer layer.

The AlGaN buffer layers can be smooth or rough. A relatively smooth buffer layer can have a root mean square RMS surface roughness value in the range from about 0.1 nm up to and including 1 nm or more depending on the crystal plane. In an embodiment for c plane GaN the surface roughness value is generally less than 1 nm such as about 0.2 to about 0.3 nm RMS and would be considered relatively rough with a surface roughness value larger than 1 nm RMS such as a value ranging from 1.1 nm to about 2 nm or 20 nm RMS . However for non polar and semipolar GaN on bulk GaN a smooth value may range from about 1 nm to about 2 nm RMS .

Any suitable epitaxial growth method can be used to form the buffer layer. Suitable examples include MBE and MOVPE. In the case of MOVPE each MOVPE reactor system is slightly different and therefore optimal growth conditions on Si 111 faceted sidewalls of a groove can vary. The potential parameter space can be large because many combinations of temperature pressure gas flows and layer compositions are possible. Selected example growth runs are described herein to provide some guidance in the selection of MOVPE growth conditions.

In an embodiment the epitaxially grown layer comprises a cubic III nitride material. For example the epitaxially grown layer can comprise c GaN and or c InGaN where y is greater than zero and equal to or less than one. Other examples of suitable cubic III nitride materials include GaAsSbN InAlAsN InGaAsN and AlGaN. Still other cubic III V materials could be formed such as GaAs AlGaAs or InGaAs. The epitaxially grown layer comprises a second crystalline lattice structure in addition to the cubic lattice structure. In an embodiment epitaxially grown layer includes both a hexagonal lattice outer region and a cubic lattice inner region

While the theoretical basis of the formation of the cubic layer is not fully understood experimental observations provide some suggestions as to the mechanism. What is known about this mechanism will now be described with respect to a Si 001 substrate although a similar mechanism may apply to other 001 substrates. The initial phases of GaN or InGaN growth are h GaN or h InGaN that nucleates on the three fold symmetric Si faces. As noted above h GaN or h InGaN is the lower energy phase and forms preferentially over c GaN or c InGaN . As this growth proceeds on the sidewalls of the v groove opposing c axes are formed on the two sides. The c axis is the direction of the h GaN or h InGaN with a larger lattice constant than the other two orthogonal crystal directions e.g. the h GaN or h InGaN lattice is elongated along the c axis direction. The two c axes directions cannot co exist in the overlap region as the material grows up from the two sides of the v groove without forming a heavily defected region. The underlying symmetry of the Si substrate provides a driving force for a phase segregation leading to the formation of the c GaN or c InGaN material in or near the center of the v groove where the growth regimes overlap. This is different than growing GaN on planar Si 001 or a shaped surface that does not provide the desired driving force in which you get a random phase separation that is not useful. It should be noted that while the symmetry of the epitaxial layer is the same as that of the Si substrate the lattice constant of the c GaN or c InGaN is fully relaxed and is not constrained by the underlying Si lattice constant.

Referring again to epitaxial layer can be grown by any suitable method such as MBE or MOVPE. The selected method can be the same as or different than the epitaxial method used to grow the buffer layer . Any suitable source materials can be employed. For example in the case of forming InGaN any suitable gallium nitrogen and indium source materials can be employed. Suitable source materials for use in MBE and MOVPE are well known in the art. One caveat is that Al containing materials are generally highly reactive with atmospheric oxygen. Suitable encapsulation and in situ etching techniques can be used to protect and or remove native oxides if the Al containing layer is to be exposed to air during transfer between growth modalities. Determining suitable encapsulation and or in situ etching techniques is within the capabilities of a person of ordinary skill in the art.

The epitaxially grown layer can have any desired thickness. For example the epitaxially grown layer can have a thickness ranging from a sub monolayer to about 10 m. The length and width dimensions of the epitaxially grown layer can largely be determined by the structuring of the substrate e.g. the length and width of the groove . The length of layer may range from for example about 10 or 100 times longer to about 1 000 000 times longer than the width of groove . Such structures can be referred to as nanowires or quantum wires.

In an embodiment a plurality of the epitaxially grown cubic layers can simultaneously be grown in a plurality of adjacent grooves. Each of the plurality of epitaxial layers can comprise both hexagonal and cubic phase lattice structures such as c GaN c InGaN regions and h GaN h InGaN regions. The resulting epitaxially grown layers can comprise a plurality of separated MQW cubic regions.

The separate cubic regions can subsequently be electrically connected in parallel series or any combination thereof. For many applications both in electronics and in optics it is advantageous to connect a number of adjacent nanowires in parallel to provide a higher current carrying capability than is available with a single nanowire. In some electronics applications it may be desirable to provide an alternate electrical configuration as is common in modern integrated circuits.

In some instances it may be desired to reduce or prevent growth of the hexagonal crystal phase while allowing the cubic lattice to continue growing. In an embodiment a blocking layer can be formed to reduce or prevent growth of the hexagonal phase portion of the epitaxial layer . For example a c GaN region and a h GaN region can be separated by a blocking layer. An example of a technique employing a blocking layer is discussed below in the description of .

The cubic phase epitaxial layers of the present disclosure can be employed in a variety of semiconductor devices. Examples of such devices include light emitting diodes LEDs laser diodes photodetectors and transistors.

In an embodiment a semiconductor device comprises strips of the epitaxially grown layers and silicon regions. Electronic devices can be positioned in both the epitaxially grown layer and the silicon regions.

In an embodiment forming the devices of the present disclosure can involve removing at least a portion of the substrate . Example techniques for removing the substrate are described in more detail below. In an embodiment forming the devices described herein can involve completely or partially removing h GaN or h InGaN quantum wells from the epitaxially grown layer.

While transistor is illustrated with the width of gate parallel with the width of the cubic lattice region the transistor can be positioned in any desired manner with respect to the cubic lattice region . For example the position of transistor can be rotated 90 so that the width of gate is formed parallel to a length of the cubic lattice region which runs into the page in .

Any desired technique can be used to electrically connect devices formed in the cubic lattice regions with each other and with other devices on the substrate surface. In an embodiment selective area decomposition of precursor gas is used to form electrical connections to the cubic crystalline devices. Suitable methods for performing selective area decomposition are well known in the art.

To obtain the desired size of cubic lattice regions for the devices of the present disclosure the widths of the groove can be adjusted. Any suitable size groove widths can be employed. For example groove widths of 100 nm to 10 m were investigated although groove widths outside of this range can be used. It is reasonable to expect that the resulting cubic GaN regions are of similar size as the groove widths which would be sufficient to fabricate LED devices. Cubic GaN regions with m sized widths have been obtained using the methods of the present disclosure.

Both geometries shown in retain the Si substrate which can be an issue for LEDs because of the strong Si visible absorption. In both cases it may be desirable to remove the silicon substrate. This can be accomplished using any suitable technique. For example the sample can be bonded to a new handle substrate such as a transparent non transparent or reflective substrate with a transparent contact layer such as ITO. The Si substrate can then be selectively removed by any suitable method. In an embodiment the back side of the substrate can be coated to form the second contact. There are many variants on this scheme familiar to the LED fabrication community any of which can be employed as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. One such example of a flip chip bonding technique for electrical connection to LEDs is described in more detail below. The resulting triangular shape of the new top surface that results from this technique could be interesting for optimization of light extraction.

A schematic process sequence for the removal of the Si is shown in . is the as grown c GaN h GaN on a Si substrate as discussed above including for example InGaN quantum wells and p n junctions. An optional process not shown is to fill the spaces between the GaN growth and above the GaN with a dielectric material that could include for example SiO such as TEOS or polymers such as but not limited to benzocyclobutene BCB which is generally well known in the art as a dielectric for use in microelectronics. This can be followed by an etch back to expose the top surface of the GaN for contacting. shows a handle wafer with two or more additional thin film layers to provide electrical and mechanical contact to the GaN. In the GaN wafer is inverted and bonded to the handle wafer making electrical contact to one side of the p n junction. In the Si substrate is removed using a combination of polishing and selective etching of the Si and of any dielectric layer in the case of SOL shows an optional step of removing the h GaN leaving just the c GaN material. shows two additional layers a dielectric isolation layer and a top contact layer . This bonding scheme is well developed in many other cases such as for example the bonding of infrared detector arrays fabricated in materials such as InSb HgCdTe or GaAs to silicon read out integrated circuits. Such bonding is routinely carried out with many millions of individual contacts. The steps presented here are exemplary only. Further process details can be worked out following well known industry practice adapted for GaN materials as would be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

From a processing stand point it would be ideal to have planar cubic GaN films so that all technologies and processes for regular LEDs may be used. To obtain these continuous films a growth mask comprising for example SiO can be employed so that only the cubic phase can grow further and these regions can then coalesce by lateral overgrowth over the mask. The growth of these structures could include a GaN capping layer to clad the ends of the QWs to reduce nonradiative transitions at the interface with amorphous materials interlayer dielectric or air .

Patterning conductive layers which can comprise metal doped polysilicon or any other conductive material suitable for device fabrication for electrically connecting the devices of the present application can be performed by any suitable method. Optical lithography tools are commercially available that have the alignment and patterning capability to form electrical contacts useful in sub micron dimension cubic lattice regions of the present disclosure. However such lithography tools are currently relatively expensive and without such tools the experimental realization of the proposed electrically connected stripe LEDs or other device cubic lattice devices of the present disclosure can prove challenging. To provide a method that can utilize less expensive tools for alignment and patterning of the cubic lattice regions an approach was adopted that employs selective area decomposition of a precursor gas. This method includes providing an array of insulated pads for probing. In an embodiment this was accomplished using photolithography and lift off as discussed in greater detail below. However any suitable method could be employed for providing the desired electrical contacts.

Regions for the contact pads were defined by photoresist and electron beam evaporation was used to deposit a stack of SiO 200 nm Ti 20 nm and Au 100 nm . A fine metal Pt contact was deposited reaching from the contact pad to the center of an individual GaN stripe by beam induced machining BIM . Other insulators and metals can be used instead of SiO Ti and Au. Other metals suitable for contacts such as tungsten can also be used instead of Pt.

BIM is usually performed by the use of a focused ion beam FIB tool to remove material. However BIM can also be used to deposit new material including conductive material such as metal or doped polysilicon dielectric material or semiconductive material. Selective decomposition of precursor gas is one form of BIM that can be employed although other forms of BIM could also be used.

During BIM the gas can be supplied by means of a gas injection system that transports the gas near the region where the planned deposition will occur. The precursor gas is decomposed by a beam of electrons or ions and leaves a residue of material determined by the precursor gas in the area where the beam has induced the decomposition. The beam diameter scanning rate duration and gas flow rates determine the final form and amount of material that gets deposited.

As an example a precursor gas containing platinum and the electron beam of a commercially available combined SEM FIB tool was used for the selective decomposition. This yielded an approximately 100 nm wide metal line. The thickness of this metal line was controlled by the deposition time and a duration of several tens of seconds yielded thicknesses on the order of 1 m. The result for one cubic GaN LED device is shown in . For this device the part of the Pt contact on the GaN stripe has a length of 7.8 m. The contact to the n side of the structure not shown was made by soldering the Si wafer to a copper block. Part of the probing pad is visible and the Pt metal line in the center contacts to the p side of the GaN stripe.

In an embodiment the stripes of the LED devices of the present disclosure can form one dimensional waveguide structures with only a small number of modes. This geometry is well suited to the realization of laser structures. The number of modes is roughly given by A 2n where A is the cross section of the stripe and n is the refractive index of the GaN. The number of modes can vary depending on the device. For the example structure of the LED device of the number of modes was roughly about 25. A smaller v groove would result in a significantly reduced number of modes.

The length of the stripes can be any suitable length limited only by the lithographic capability and size of the substrate. Example nanowire structures have been made that are about 1 cm which is believed to be far longer than other known nanowire structures. Example lengths of the stripes can range from about 10 nm or less to about 50 cm such as about 1 10 or 100 microns to about 1 10 or 30 cm.

The material can cleave perpendicular to the stripe providing good mirror surfaces. Even without a good cleaved surface the small number of modes means that there is high reflectivity back into the propagating modes in the stripe.

The Si is highly absorbing to radiation at visible wavelengths which can potentially be problematic for laser structures. However as discussed above there are straightforward approaches to removing the Si. Another possible problem is that the h InGaN quantum wells to the side of the c InGaN wells may provide a lower energy level siphoning carriers from the c InGaN. This can be addressed by removing the h GaN QW regions. shows a region where focused ion beam milling has been used to remove the h GaN regions. Alternatively the blocking technique of discussed above can be applied before the growth of the InGaN QWs.

Both electrical and optical pumping are appropriate for investigating lasing possibilities. One of ordinary skill in the art would be readily able to implement the devices described herein to fabricate lasers for either electrical or optical pumping.

The light output power vs. current graphs for the same cubic GaN LEDs as in are shown in respectively. This data shows that in both devices there is a current range in which the light output power increases faster than linearly proportional to the current. Specifically for this is observed in the range of 50 A to 140 A. Specifically for this is observed in the range of 40 A to 60 A. Both those findings are indications that light amplification by stimulated emission may be occurring. Furthermore it is possible that by the specifics of the described structure an optical cavity may have been formed that could act as a resonator to support such stimulated emission to induce laser diode action in these device structures.

Examples of laser devices are illustrated by . illustrates a quantum well laser device comprising a semiconductor substrate on which a heterophase lattice region is formed. For example the region can comprise outer h GaN and inner c GaN lattice regions. Any of the other group III nitrides as described herein can be employed in place of GaN. Laser device includes a quantum well region as is well known in the art. Quantum well region can comprise a suitable group III nitride material such as InGaN. Semiconductor regions above and below the quantum well can be doped with p type or n type dopants as is well known in the art. For example a region immediately below the quantum well can be doped with n type dopants and a region immediately above quantum well can be doped with p type dopants or vice versa. In an embodiment multiple quantum wells can be employed instead of a single quantum well as is also well known in the art.

The present disclosure teaches among other things growth on sub m sized and m sized V grooves in silicon as a method for forming cubic GaN structures and cubic GaN LEDs. A contrast change in SEM is observed between the GaN near the groove sidewalls and the material near the groove center. These cubic regions can have a width on the order of for example several hundred nanometers. For undoped and MQW structures the cubic phase in the stripe center was confirmed by Electron backscattering diffraction EBSD phase identification. The top surface of the cubic region in the MQW structure exhibited a 001 plane. Band edge emission and luminescence from GaInN GaN MQWs in cubic GaN were observed by CL.

A line array of v grooves with a period of 1.8 microns was fabricated into a Si 001 substrate by interferometric lithography with a single longitudinal transverse mode frequency tripled yttrium aluminum garnet laser at a wavelength of 355 nm and anisotropic wet etching based on potassium hydroxide. The lithographic pattern was aligned so that the v grooves were aligned approximately along the direction of the Si surface. This led to the revealing of 111 sidewalls after KOH etching. As a substrate boron doped Si 001 wafers with resistivity of 10 ohm cm were used. An electron beam deposited Cr film 200 nm was employed as an etch mask. Each groove comprises two 111 type facets forming a v shape valley when viewed in cross section. The groove width was kept at 0.8 microns and the corresponding depth was then 0.6 microns.

On the v groove patterned substrate a buffer comprising a thin AlN and 450 nm thick GaN layer was grown first by MOVPE. The thin AlN was employed to avoid any nitridation on the Si surface at the beginning of deposition.

On a patterned substrate similar to that of Example 1 an additional 5 stacks of a 3 nm thick InGaN well with a 20 nm thick GaN spacer and an 8 nm thick GaN capping layer were consecutively grown on the 450 nm thick GaN buffer layer. All layer thicknesses both in Example 1 and Example 2 were calibrated on a sapphire 0001 plane as a reference. The total amount of deposition was sufficient to induce the phase transition to cubic phase by filling up each v groove. At the same time the deposition was controlled to avoid any coalescence between the epitaxial layers grown on adjacent grooves. Thus most of the epitaxial layers grown on individual grooves kept the identical crystal shape even when growing beyond their initial filling of their respective groove.

Examples of different buffer layers are shown in . In the nucleation layer is about 25 thinner than in . The resulting growth looks similar in both cases showing good and selective nucleation normal to 111 planes. In the example of no growth occurred on the flat top Si 100 surfaces between the v grooves. The GaN on the sidewalls was smooth and continuous but the top edges were irregularly shaped. Voids can form where the two wings from adjacent v grooves join.

The effect of different substrate patterns was studied in wide grooves with flat bottoms and sharp v grooves as shown in . In illustrating grooves with relatively wide spacing between the sidewalls the GaN was thicker than in B indicating that due to the reduced nucleation area the growth rate increases. This is a well known effect in selective area growth. The GaN thickness is 510 nm and 380 nm in respectively.

To merge the two growth fronts from the two sidewalls longer growth times can be employed. In the result of a 30 min GaN growth is shown. shows irregular GaN growth and alloying problem due to increased growth time. The crystal quality was degraded and some parts of the structure show the alloying problem discussed above. A thicker AlN buffer as shown in eliminated the alloying problem as can be seen in .

From the above example the following can be concluded. For successful growth the thickness of the AlN nucleation layer can be varied to prevent or reduce the alloying problem. For long growth times this alone may not be enough and a combination of low GaN growth temperature and AlGaN interlayer can be employed. The use of the AlGaN interlayer is a trade off between selectivity and prevention of alloying.

An example of structures grown after the optimization of the nucleation and buffer layers is shown in . The structure is uniform on the scale of several mm and the SEM images reveal that the two growth fronts in the grooves merged completely. The top surface in the center region is not completely smooth but shows steps and striations. The top surface of GaN near the sidewalls is angled away from the horizontal and it shows a slightly smoother morphology than the center region. The v groove depth was on the order of 0.7 m and the GaN thickness between the v shaped contrast line and the silicon was around 0.2 m measured perpendicular to the Si 111 sidewalls .

To prepare for the growth of a MQW structure an undoped cubic GaN template was grown and its quality verified. It was observed that the AlN nucleation layer and the AlGaN layers interacted during growth and sharp tips of presumably AlGaN protruded into the AlN layer. Despite this alloying was not a problem for this structure. This structure was subsequently used to regrow a cyan MQW structure. The MQW comprises 7 pairs of GaInN GaN layers. The equivalent super lattice period for one pair in a planar layer is 25.2 nm. An optical microscope image in Nomarski mode and a PL image are shown in . It was found that after the regrowth some areas show very smooth surface morphology and most of the GaN stripes in the other areas are rough on a micrometer scale. The roughness comes from parasitic growth on the GaN stripes which produces hillocks. Between these defects smooth micron sized regions can be found along the GaN stripes.

It was possible to observe the contrast of the MQWs in SEM micrographs due to the combined effect of different atomic composition of GaN and GaInN layers and different fracturing of the layers during cleaving. shows the cross section of an individual GaN stripe with enhanced contrast for clarity . As shown a large V shaped contrast separated the sidewalls from the central region. Several layers can be seen near the top surface. These layers were the re grown MQWs and they conformed to the shape determined by the template structure. It was evident that the MQWs grew parallel to the top surface in the central region and they were inclined away from the horizontal on the sidewall top surfaces. In addition they also grew on the inclined vertical sidewalls. The growth rate in this direction was strongly reduced as evident from the drastically reduced spacing between the MQWs see B .

A surface analysis shows that 000 and 0001 are a Ga terminated gallided and a N terminated nitrided surface respectively and the gallided surface is energetically more stable than the nitrided surface for GaN. A more stable surface is less active in bonding adatoms for nucleation.

Regarding the cross section of the epilayer on each groove in as a 2 dimensional crystal the epitaxy proceeds with the minimization of total surface free energy at the given cross sectional area. This drives the shape of an epilayer to the equilibrium crystal shape ECS for the specific growth conditions. Assuming that every facet on the epilayer has the equal accessibility to the source gases supplied into an MOVPE reactor and a lateral dimension less than or comparable to the adatom surface migration length the lowest total surface free energy can be maintained at any stage of the epitaxy by contracting expanding the areas of higher lower surface energy facets e.g. the lengths of a facet in the cross section of . This coincides with adatom migration across facet boundaries. In epitaxy the contraction of a certain facet generally occurs when it has a faster growth rate than for adjacent facets i.e. in migration rate out migration rate and as a result accompanies the area expansion of those neighboring facets of lower surface free energy. Then the decreasing order of growth rate is roughly proportional to the energetic stability of the given facets and the significantly low growth rate on 000 in Equation 2 doesn t contradict the reported surface analysis. Equation 1 implies that surface free energy of 000 is the lowest of the other facets involved in the crystal shape of the epilayer. On the other hand 100 has the highest free surface energy. This means the adatoms on nearby 000 and 101 in migrate onto 100 and some of them on 101 also have nonzero out migration rate into the adjacent 001 . From it can be theorized that the crystal shape may evolve through the generation and annihilation of various facets by adatom migration that can be explained with ECS. It should be emphasized that the surface free energy is directly related to the surface reconstruction which is affected by growth conditions during epitaxy and the order of surface free energy deduced from Equation 1 is valid only under the given growth parameters.

As revealed by the InGaN layers in the top surface of c GaN before the deposition of the first c InGaN layer is already flat. While some of the epilayers show noticeable fluctuation in planarization up to the 2nd InGaN deposition most of them attain the planar surface before deposition of InGaN MQWs. Thus at least three c InGaN QW layers from the top keep planar interface parallel to Si 001 across the cubic phase region. According to ECS based on the minimization of total surface free energy however rgreater than rin Equation 2 implies that the free surface energy of the c GaN 001 facet is higher than that of the h GaN 101 and this facet will ultimately vanish out from the front growth surface as epitaxy proceeds further. also implies the annihilation of 001 in continued epitaxy with the dashed lines representing an imaginary front growth surface that would be formed with continued epitaxy beyond the capping layer surface. Then the resulting cross section would comprise a rhombus shape c GaN totally enclosed within h GaN. This variation of cross section is very important in device applications of c III N s. In order to have the maximized cubic phase top 001 surface the growth must be controlled to stop near the point where the cross section of the cubic phase attains the shape of a half of the rhombus in cross section as in .

The single v groove epilayer shown in is composed of spatially separated two phase materials exposing several different facets along a single top surface. A theoretical calculation suggests that critical thickness of InGaN on GaN with In composition of 0.2 is lower by up to 20 in hexagonal phase compared with the same constituent material in the cubic phase. Generally nucleation depends on substrate orientation in the epitaxial growth of strained heterostructures. Moreover the cubic 001 orientation has a different misfit stress than the neighboring hexagonal 101 and 100 facets. Previously a higher tensile stress in c GaN at the center region 1 GPa than in h GaN near the edge up to 0.5 GPa has been reported over a deep sub m scale v groove.

Then there could be a substantial issue on the nucleation of InGaN in and the In adatom migration due to the stress from the multiple facets on a h surface as well as the coexistence of h and c GaN at the growth surface. A rigorous approach is beyond the scope of this work. However may provide a rough idea for the In incorporation on a multi faceted front growth surface. First Equation 2 can be applied to InGaN QW layers to evaluate thicknesses over different facets. In the ratio of the thickness on 101 to the thickness on 100 for InGaN is not noticeably different from that for GaN. That is h InGaN QWs on 100 are twice wider than that on 100 in thickness. Then there seems to be the mass transport of In adatoms across the facet boundary that is almost identical to that of Ga adatoms. If the adatom migration conjectured from Equation 2 is applied to the c InGaN QWs on 001 they are expected to be a little thicker than those on 101. But this is not confirmed in . On the contrary they looked thinner than those of on 101 with lower contrast. This is opposite to the tendency observed in GaN spacers between 001 and 101 where growth on 001 catches up that on 101 as a result of the faster growth rate as discussed earlier. It is not clear whether these observations are due to the stress near the junction of the two facets or some instrumental byproduct from the STEM image capture. Further study is required to understand the In incorporation onto cubic phase 001 plane bounded by hexagonal 101 and its correlation with stress resulting from lattice mismatch and spatial phase separation. Nonetheless it is evident that the migration and nucleation of In adatoms are affected by the presence of the phase and facet boundaries at the growth front surface in InGaN growth and as a result this impacts the optical and electrical properties of the c InGaN GaN MQWs.

After these encouraging results on the MQW growth full LED structures that include a final Mg doped layer 200 nm thick were grown. For this structure a substrate with small V grooves was used. The depth of the initial grooves was 0.3 m and the width at the top was 0.45 m. From it can be seen that after the growth some portions of the neighboring GaN stripes touched each other. There was a significant density of hillocks on the GaN stripes. Between these defects continuous stripes with lengths in the tens of micrometers were found . shows a strong contrast difference between the central region and the sidewalls. The stripes showed the familiar striations perpendicular to the groove direction just like those observed in undoped GaN and the MQW structures. It was particularly interesting to find that the basic growth scheme continued even once the GaN had grown significantly out of the initial V groove . The individual stripes showed some variation in height and therefore even if merging of the cubic GaN regions of neighboring stripes were possible for example using growth masks or etching the height difference would make it difficult to achieve consistent crystal quality.

From the SEM cross sections the Mg doped layer on top of the LED structures was clearly visible with its brighter contrast. This is also commonly observed in wurtzite LEDs on sapphire. A schematic of the structure is shown in . The introduction of the Mg dopant did not change the growth properties significantly. There was little Mg doped GaN on the sidewalls facing adjacent grooves since the GaN stripes almost touched each other before this layer was grown and therefore little material could enter the gap between two adjacent stripes.

The IV characteristics of two cubic GaN LEDs which were made according to the methods of the present disclosure and that were similar to the device illustrated in are shown in . These two LED devices were labeled as M7 and O8 in . The data for these device shows clear diode behavior with moderate leakage. The rectifying ratio of current in forward to current in reverse direction is as high as 4.8 at 15V for the device labeled M7. Given the dimensions of the small p side contacts which have an area less than 1 m the calculated current density is on the order of tens of kA cm. This would be an exceptionally high current density and it is believed that not all current is flowing through this small contact but instead is leaking through the contact pad. This is possible because the surface morphology is very rough and has sharp features which can facilitate dielectric breakdown in the insulating layer. Additionally it was observed that the probing needle may slightly damage the contact pad which could also add to parasitic leakage.

Relatively strong electroluminescence EL was observed for the two devices M7 and O8. The spectra data for the two cubic GaN LED devices M7 and O8 are shown in and respectively. In particular shows spectra of device M7 in linear and semi logarithmic plots. shows spectra of device M7 in A linear and B semi logarithmic plots .

The EL for other devices not shown showed parasitic bluish emission from directly under the probing needle or the corners of the probing pad. The parasitic emission was often flickering whereas the emission from the region with intentionally fabricated contacts was stable. To quantify the emission characteristics the light from the devices was collected by an optical fiber 400 m silica core positioned a few mm above the LED. The spectral sensitivity of the setup was calibrated indirectly using an intermediate light source. This resulted in small artifacts in the recorded spectra in the form of shoulders on the main peak. It must be noted that the absolute power calibration using this approach has a potential large error and therefore has to be regarded as an order of magnitude estimate.

The wavelength of the main peak in is at 489 nm at a current of 140 A indicating that wavelength stable electroluminescence at 489 nm was achieved. There was negligible wavelength shift as the current was decreased which is evident from . At 140 A there are two peaks in the red spectral region one at 597 nm and one at 614 nm. There is also very little shift in the position of these two peaks over the measured current range.

Similar results are obtained for the second device shown in . The main peak at 100 A is at 487 nm and there is no shift in the range from 20 100 A. The strongest peaks in the red spectral region are at 586 nm and 600 nm at 100 A . The 600 nm peak shows no shift in the current range from 40 100 A.

In conventional wurtzite GaN LEDs with the cyan or green emission a change in current by one order of magnitude can result in peak shifts of 10 nm or more due to a reduced QCSE. Therefore the observed absence of such peak shifts is a strong indication of EL from the cubic GaN region. Even when the non radiative leakage through other parts of the contact pad is taken into account this result is valid if it is assumed that the ratio of leakage current to current through the region of interest stays constant. Within the calibration limitations outlined above the total power of device O8 at 100 A was determined to be 6 nW with an EQE of 3 10.

For the purposes of this specification and appended claims unless otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities percentages or proportions and other numerical values used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are approximations that can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present disclosure. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.

It is noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless expressly and unequivocally limited to one referent. Thus for example reference to an acid includes two or more different acids. As used herein the term include and its grammatical variants are intended to be non limiting such that recitation of items in a list is not to the exclusion of other like items that can be substituted or added to the listed items.

While particular embodiments have been described alternatives modifications variations improvements and substantial equivalents that are or can be presently unforeseen can arise to applicants or others skilled in the art. Accordingly the appended claims as filed and as they can be amended are intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications variations improvements and substantial equivalents.

