---

title: Methods of forming junction termination extension edge terminations for high power semiconductor devices and related semiconductor devices
abstract: Methods of forming a power semiconductor device having an edge termination are provided in which the power semiconductor device that has a drift region of a first conductivity type is formed on a substrate. A junction termination extension is formed on the substrate adjacent the power semiconductor device, the junction termination extension including a plurality of junction termination zones that are doped with dopants having a second conductivity type. The junction termination zones have different effective doping concentrations. A dopant activation process is performed to activate at least some of the dopants in the junction termination zones. An electrical characteristic of the power semiconductor device is measured. Then, the junction termination extension is etched in order to reduce the effective doping concentration within the junction termination extension.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09064738&OS=09064738&RS=09064738
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09064738
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130719
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. W911NF 12 R 0012 SPECIAL HVPT. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to power semiconductor devices and more particularly to edge termination structures for power semiconductor devices and to methods of forming such edge termination structures.

Power semiconductor devices are widely used to carry large currents and support high voltages. A wide variety of power semiconductor devices are known in the art including for example power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors MOSFET Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors IGBT Schottky diodes Junction Barrier Schottky JBS diodes merged p n Schottky MPS diodes Gate Turn Off Transistors GTO MOS controlled thyristors and various other devices. Modern power semiconductor devices are generally fabricated from monocrystalline silicon semiconductor material or more recently from silicon carbide SiC . Moreover power semiconductor devices are often fabricated in a paralleled unit cell structure.

Power semiconductor devices can have a lateral structure or a vertical structure. In a lateral structure the terminals of the device e.g. the drain gate and source terminals for a power MOSFET device are on the same major surface i.e. top or bottom of a semiconductor layer structure. In contrast in a vertical structure terminals are provided on both major surfaces of the semiconductor layer structure e.g. in a vertical MOSFET the source may be on the top surface of the semiconductor layer structure and the drain may be on the bottom surface of the semiconductor layer structure . The semiconductor layer structure may or may not include an underlying substrate. Herein the term semiconductor layer structure refers to a structure that includes at least two semiconductor layers in a stacked relationship or to at least a single semiconductor layer having regions that are doped with different types of dopants.

A conventional SiC power device typically has a SiC substrate such as a SiC wafer having a first conductivity type e.g. an n type substrate on which an epitaxial layer having the first conductivity type e.g. n type is formed. This epitaxial layer which may comprise one or more separate layers functions as a drift region of the power semiconductor device. The device typically includes an active region which includes one or more power semiconductor devices that have a p n junction and or a Schottky junction. The active region may be formed on and or in the drift region. The active region acts as a main junction for blocking voltage in the reverse bias direction and providing current flow in the forward bias direction. As will be discussed below the device has an edge termination region that is adjacent the active region. One or more power semiconductor devices may be formed on the substrate and each power semiconductor device will typically have its own edge termination. After the substrate is fully formed and processed the substrate may be diced to separate the individual edge terminated power semiconductor devices. In many cases the power semiconductor devices on the substrate will have a unit cell structure in which the active region of each power semiconductor device includes a large number of individual devices that are disposed in parallel to each other and that together function as a single power semiconductor device.

As noted above semiconductor power devices are designed to block in the reverse blocking state or pass in the forward operating state large voltages and or currents. For example in the reverse blocking state a semiconductor power device may be designed to sustain tens hundreds or thousands of volts of electric potential or even higher voltages. However as the reverse voltage approaches or passes the reverse voltage level that the device is designed to block non trivial levels of current may begin to flow through the power semiconductor device. Such current which is typically referred to as leakage current may be highly undesirable. Leakage current may begin to flow if the reverse voltage is increased beyond the design voltage blocking capability of the device which is a function of among other things the doping and thickness of the drift layer. However current leakage can occur for other reasons such as failure of the edge termination and or the primary junction of the device.

A conventional power semiconductor device may begin to break down and allow non trivial amounts of leakage current to flow at a voltage that is lower than the design breakdown voltage Vof the device. In particular leakage current may begin to flow at the edges of the active region where high electric fields may be experienced due to electric field crowding effects. In order to reduce this electric field crowding and the resulting increased leakage currents edge termination structures are provided that surround part or all of the active region of a power semiconductor device. These edge terminations may spread the electric field out over a greater area thereby reducing the electric field crowding. One known type of edge termination is a junction termination extension JTE .

A JTE edge termination typically surrounds the active region of a power semiconductor device and may include a plurality of zones that have a conductivity type that is opposite the conductivity type of the drift region of the device e.g. a p type region with respect to the example SiC power device discussed above . The JTE zones are typically formed by ion implantation although they can also be formed in other ways e.g. by growing doped layers by diffusion etc. . In SiC power devices having p type JTE zones the implanted dopants used to form the JTE zones may be aluminum boron or any other suitable p type dopant. The implanted dopants of the opposite conductivity type spread the electrical field in the reverse blocking state over a greater distance as compared to a device without a JTE edge termination . Consequently the JTE edge termination may reduce or prevent the electric field crowding at the edges of the active region and may also reduce or prevent the depletion region from interacting with the surface of the device. Surface effects may cause the depletion region to spread unevenly which may adversely affect the breakdown voltage of the device. While a JTE edge termination is one known type of edge termination other edge termination techniques are also known in the art including for example guard rings.

A conventional JTE terminated Schottky power diode is illustrated in . It will be appreciated that and the various other cross sectional diagrams included in this application only illustrates one half of the power semiconductor device structure in order to simplify the drawings the structure may include mirror image portions not shown . As shown in the JTE edge terminated Schottky diode includes an n drift layer on an n substrate . The substrate may comprise for example an n SiC wafer. However any suitable substrate may be used. The substrate may be optional e.g. it can be removed after device formation . The drift layer may comprise an epitaxially grown n SiC drift layer. At least one p region is formed typically by ion implantation in an upper surface of the n drift layer . These p regions form respective p n junctions with the drift layer . A metal anode Schottky contact is on the drift layer and may be in contact with both the n drift layer and the p region s . The anode contact forms a Schottky junction with the exposed portions of the drift layer and may form an ohmic contact with the p region s . A metal cathode contact is formed on the opposite side of the n substrate . The p regions the Schottky contact the drift layer the substrate and the cathode contact comprise a Schottky diode that is formed in an active region .

In forward operation a junction J between the metal anode Schottky contact and the drift layer turns on before the junctions J between the p regions and the drift layer . Thus at low forward voltages the device exhibits Schottky diode behavior. That is current transport in the device is dominated by majority carriers electrons injected across the Schottky junction J at low forward voltages. Under reverse bias conditions however the depletion regions formed by the p n junctions J between the p regions and the drift layer expand to block reverse current through the device protecting the Schottky junction J and limiting reverse leakage current in the device . Thus in reverse bias the JBS diode behaves like a PIN diode. The voltage blocking ability of the device is typically determined by the thickness and doping of the drift layer and the design of any edge termination.

Referring again to the Schottky power diode further includes a JTE edge termination that includes a plurality of JTE zones A B C that are provided in the n drift layer adjacent to the p regions . The JTE zones A B C are p type regions that may have levels of charge that decrease outwardly in a stepwise fashion with distance from the active region . Although three JTE zones A B C are illustrated more or fewer JTE zones may be provided.

The JTE zones A B C may be formed by implantation of ions into the n drift layer . However since the JTE zones A B C have different levels of p type dopants such implantation may require multiple mask and implantation steps increasing the complexity and expense of production. This may be exacerbated as the number of JTE zones is increased.

Pursuant to embodiments of the present invention methods of forming a power semiconductor devices having edge terminations are provided in which a power semiconductor device is formed on a substrate. A junction termination extension is formed on the substrate adjacent the power semiconductor device the junction termination extension including a plurality of junction termination zones that are doped with dopants such that the junction termination zones have different effective doping concentrations. A dopant activation process such as an ion implantation anneal is performed to activate at least some of the dopants in the junction termination zones. An electrical characteristic of the power semiconductor device such as for example a leakage current is measured. Then the junction termination extension is etched in order to reduce the effective doping concentration of dopants within the junction termination extension.

In some embodiments the power semiconductor device has a drift region that has a first conductivity type and the junction termination zones are doped with dopants having a second conductivity type that is different than the first conductivity type. The power semiconductor device may be a first of a plurality of power semiconductor devices that are formed on the substrate and an electrical characteristic of the first of the plurality of semiconductor devices or of a second of the plurality of power semiconductor devices may be measured after the etching of the junction termination extension is completed.

In some embodiments at least some of the junction termination zones comprise an implanted region in a top surface of the drift region that is adjacent to a non implanted region in the top surface of the drift region. In such embodiments the effective doping concentration of each junction termination zone may be greater than the effective doping concentration of others of the junction termination zones that are a greater distance from the power semiconductor device. The size of the implanted region of each junction termination zone may be based on a distance of the junction termination zone from the power semiconductor device so that the size of the implanted region of each junction termination zone exceeds the sizes of the implanted regions of others of the junction termination zones that are at a greater distance from the power semiconductor device.

The junction termination extension may initially be formed by doping the junction termination zones with effective doping concentrations that exceed target effective doping concentrations. The etching of the junction termination extension may be performed in some embodiments by etching both the implanted region and any non implanted region of each junction termination zone while in other embodiments the etching may be performed by only etching the implanted regions of each junction termination zone.

Pursuant to further embodiments of the present invention methods of forming an edge termination are provided in which a junction termination extension is formed on a substrate that includes a semiconductor layer thereon. A first probing operation is performed on the substrate with the semiconductor layer to measure an electrical characteristic thereof. At least a portion of the junction termination extension is then removed. Them a second probing operation is performed on the substrate with the semiconductor layer.

In some embodiments the first probing operation and the second probing operation measure the same electrical characteristic. The electrical characteristic may be for example a breakdown voltage or a leakage current. The junction termination extension may include a plurality of junction termination zones and removing at least a portion of the junction termination extension may comprise etching an upper surface of at least a portion of each junction termination zone. The semiconductor layer may have a first conductivity type and forming the junction termination extension may comprise implanting dopants having a second conductivity type into the semiconductor layer to form a plurality of implanted regions where each junction termination zone comprises one of the implanted regions and at least some of the junction termination zones include a non implanted region that is adjacent the implanted region of the junction termination zone. The removal of at least a portion of the junction termination extension may be accomplished for example by etching the junction termination zones to reduce the number of activated dopants in each junction termination zone by approximately the same percentage.

Pursuant to still further embodiments of the present invention methods of forming power semiconductor devices are provided in which first and second power semiconductor devices are formed on a substrate that has a semiconductor layer that has a first conductivity type thereon. First and second junction termination extensions are formed on the substrate adjacent the first power semiconductor device each of which include a plurality of junction termination zones that are doped with dopants having a second conductivity type where the junction termination zones have different effective doping concentrations. A dopant activation process is performed to activate at least some of the dopants in the junction termination zones. An electrical characteristic of the first power semiconductor device is measured. The number of activated dopants having the second conductivity type in the first and second junction termination extensions is then reduced after measuring the electrical characteristic of the first power semiconductor device. Then the electrical characteristic of at least one of the first power semiconductor device or the second power semiconductor device is measured.

Pursuant to yet additional embodiments of the present invention power semiconductor devices are provided that include a semiconductor layer having a first conductivity type. These devices have an active region that includes at least one power device that is formed in a semiconductor layer structure that includes at least a semiconductor layer having a first conductivity type and a region in an upper surface of the semiconductor layer that has a second conductivity type. These devices also include a junction termination extension that is adjacent to the active region and that includes a plurality of junction termination zones in the semiconductor layer where each junction termination zone comprises a junction termination region having the second conductivity type. A top surface of at least portions of some of the junction termination zones are recessed below a top surface of the semiconductor layer structure in the active region but are above a bottom surface of the region in the upper surface of the semiconductor layer that has a second conductivity type.

As noted above in a power semiconductor device that includes a JTE edge termination the amount of implanted charges is gradually decreased with increasing distance from the active region. In the example of above this decreasing charge density with increasing distance from the active region is accomplished by performing multiple implants of p type dopants into the power semiconductor device using multiple masking steps to form a plurality of JTE zones where the JTE zones have decreasing amounts of p type dopants the farther away that they are from the active region. The use of multiple mask formation and ion implantation steps can increase the cost and complexity of the fabrication process.

Each of the p type regions A B C may have approximately the same density of p type dopants implanted therein as these regions are formed by the same ion implantation step. However p type region A is larger than is p type region B and p type region B is larger than p type region C. As the JTE zones A B C are each the same size this means that the n type region A is smaller than the n type region B and n type region B is smaller than n type region C.

Since the p type region A is larger than the p type region B JTE zone A will have a higher concentration of p type dopants as compared to JTE zone B. Likewise since the p type region B is larger than the p type region C JTE zone B will have a higher concentration of p type dopants as compared to JTE zone C. Herein the doping concentration of JTE zones will typically be referred to by reference to the effective doping concentration of the JTE zone which is the number of opposite conductivity type dopants included in the JTE zone divided by the volume of JTE zone including both the opposite conductivity type region and any same conductivity type region of the JTE zone . The opposite conductivity type dopant region of a JTE zone refers to that part of the JTE zone that is doped with dopants having a conductivity type that is opposite to the conductivity type of the drift layer of the device e.g. region A of JTE zone A in while the same conductivity type dopant region of a JTE zone refers to any part of the JTE zone that is doped with dopants having the same conductivity type as the conductivity type of the drift layer of the device e.g. region A of JTE zone A in . Thus it will be appreciated that in the device of the effective doping concentration of the JTE zones decreases with the distance of the JTE zones from the active region . Consequently illustrates a power semiconductor device that has a JTE edge termination that may be formed using a single ion implantation step that has JTE zones having opposite conductivity type dopant concentrations that decrease in a step wise fashion with increasing distance from the active region . As ion implantation steps may tend to be time consuming and costly the single mask implant step that is used to form the power semiconductor device of may be preferred over the multiple mask implant process used to form the power semiconductor device of .

The amount of activated p type dopants that are present in the p type regions A B C of JTE zones A B C may be a critical parameter in certain applications. For example for many power semiconductor devices the JTE edge termination design can function acceptably so long as the number of activated opposite conductivity type dopants in each of the JTE zones is within about a factor of two from a desired level of activated opposite conductivity type dopants e.g. a well designed JTE edge termination with an optimal dose of activated opposite conductivity type dopants of 2 10cmin a particular JTE zone would still function acceptably so long as the actual level of activated opposite conductivity type dopants in that JTE zone was between about 1 10cmand about 4 10cm . Typically the number of opposite conductivity type dopants that are implanted into each JTE zone may be controlled with a high degree of precision. However with respect to ion implanted dopants into for example 4H SiC the amount of p opposite conductivity type dopants that are activated can vary by significantly more than a factor of two. This is particularly true when one or more of the processing parameters are changed between fabrication runs.

For example boron is routinely used as a p type dopant in 4H SiC because of its favorable diffusion properties. However as shown in which is a graph of the activated fraction of implanted boron versus annealing temperature in 4H SiC the percentage of boron atoms that may be activated by an activation annealing step can vary from between 0 and 100 depending upon annealing temperature. Moreover as the annealing temperature is increased the variation in the electrical activity of the dopants may increase. For example is a graph of the electrical activity of implanted boron versus anneal temperature for two different wafers that were processed under the same conditions. As shown in even under constant processing conditions the electrical activity can vary significantly between processing runs particularly at higher temperature anneals note that is plotted on a log scale and hence illustrates that variations of a factor of two can be expected even when processing conditions are held constant . As illustrates that higher annealing temperatures are necessary to achieve high dopant activation levels illustrate how variations in the electrical activity of boron implanted 4H SiC may easily exceed a factor of two.

Because of the above described variations in electrical activity in for example boron implanted 4H SiC it may be necessary to perform one or more calibration runs when fabricating power semiconductor devices having JTE terminations in order to determine implant dosages for the p type dopants that are implanted into the JTE zones. However the use of such calibration runs can be both expensive and time consuming as they may require complete fabrication and testing of one or more calibration wafers.

Pursuant to embodiments of the present invention methods of adjusting the amount of activated dopants in the JTE zones of a JTE edge termination are provided which can be performed on a production run wafer or a test wafer while reducing or eliminating the need for any calibration wafers. The methods disclosed herein may be performed after the activation step that is used to activate the implanted dopants in the JTE zones e.g. the activation anneal in the wafer fabrication process. In process wafer probing is used to measure an electrical characteristic of one or more power semiconductor devices on the wafer such as for example the leakage current through the JTE zones and or the breakdown voltage level of the device s . The wafer may then be processed to vary the level of activated dopants in the JTE zones in a desired fashion and the in process probing may be repeated to obtain additional feedback. This sequence of steps may be repeated until it is determined for example that the power semiconductor devices on the wafer have met a desired design parameter such as for example a minimum desired breakdown voltage. The methods according to embodiments of the present invention may be performed on for example wafers fabricated using either multiple mask multiple zone JTE edge terminations or single mask multiple zone JTE edge terminations.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described in greater detail with reference to the remaining figures which disclose example embodiments.

Referring first to a portion of a power semiconductor device e.g. a SiC JBS diode is illustrated that has an active region and a JTE edge termination . The power semiconductor device includes a substrate which may comprise for example a heavily doped n type n 4H SiC substrate. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the substrate may be removed after device formation if desired. A lightly doped n 4H SiC drift layer may be formed on the substrate by for example epitaxial growth. Both the substrate and the drift layer may extend throughout both the active region and the JTE edge termination region . One or more heavily doped p regions are formed typically by ion implantation in an upper surface of the n drift layer in the active region of the substrate . A metal anode Schottky contact is formed on the drift layer in contact with both the n drift layer and the p regions . A bottom side metal contact may be provided on the opposite side of the substrate .

As is further shown in the JTE region includes a plurality of JTE zones A B C D E. The JTE zones may be formed using a single ion implantation mask using the above described single mask multiple zone JTE zone formation technique that is discussed above with reference to . The JTE zones are formed in an upper portion of the n drift layer . The first JTE zone A may be for example adjacent to the p regions and the remaining JTE zones B through E may be arranged outwardly therefrom.

Each JTE zone includes an implanted region and a non implanted region . Thus for example JTE zone B includes an implanted region B and a non implanted region B. The implanted regions are implanted with p type dopants. The non implanted regions comprise n type regions. The size of the implanted regions become increasingly smaller with increasing distance from the active region such that the size of implanted region A is greater than the size of implanted region B which in turn is larger than implanted region C etc. As described above the implanted regions A B C D E may each be implanted with the same dosage of p type dopants using a single ion implantation step. Since the size of the implanted regions decrease with increasing distance from the active region the JTE edge termination will effectively exhibit a step wise gradually decreasing dopant profile since the JTE zones will have a decreasing effective dopant concentration.

The power semiconductor devices may be fabricated using conventional methods. The implant dosage for the JTE edge termination may be selected to achieve a minimum doping concentration in the JTE zones A B C D E. This minimum doping concentration may be selected to be higher than a target effective doping concentration for the power semiconductor devices to ensure that variations in the amount of activated dopants do not result in the power semiconductor devices having insufficient activated dopant levels in their JTE zones . In other words the doping concentration in the implanted regions A B C D E may initially be set to a high level and then the effective doping concentration of the JTE zones may be reduced from this level in subsequent steps of the fabrication process in order to reduce the effective doping concentration to a level that achieves a minimum breakdown voltage for the power semiconductor devices .

Once the wafer of is formed and a dopant activation step such as an activation anneal has been performed one or more of the power semiconductor devices can be probed to measure for example an electrical characteristic thereof. For example a first probe may be connected to the top side contact of a power semiconductor device and a second probe may be connected to the bottom side contact of the power semiconductor device . A voltage potential may be placed across the power semiconductor device . An electrical characteristic of the power semiconductor device such as for example the leakage current may be measured using the first and second probes. For example in some embodiments the voltage potential applied across the power semiconductor device may be varied to determine a voltage potential at which the measured leakage current exceeds a certain level which is considered to represent reverse breakdown in order to determine the breakdown voltage of the power semiconductor device .

If the measured or estimated breakdown voltage of the device that is determined in the above described probing step is too low i.e. if the breakdown voltage is less than a specified or desired breakdown voltage then a trimming step may be performed on the JTE zones of the power semiconductor devices on wafer . Herein a trimming step refers to a process that reduces the number of activated dopants in one or more of a plurality of JTE zones of a JTE edge termination. Typically the trimming step is performed by etching one or more of the implanted regions of the JTE zones although it will be appreciated that other techniques may be used in other embodiments such as for example the implantation of opposite conductivity type dopants into the JTE zones.

Referring now to one of the power semiconductor devices of wafer is pictured after a trimming step has been performed. As shown in in one example trimming step an upper portion of the middle of each implanted region A B C D E is removed via for example etching in order to reduce the size of each implanted region . In some embodiments this removal step may be performed so that the relative doping concentrations of the JTE zones remains constant. For example the same percentage of material may be removed from each implanted region e.g. ten percent of the total volume of each implanted region is removed . By trimming each implanted region in the above described fashion the amount of activated dopants in each JTE zone is reduced.

After the above described trimming step is performed one or more of the power semiconductor devices are again probed to measure an electrical characteristic of these devices such as the leakage current in order to determine if the leakage current is or will be at an acceptable level when for example a pre specified breakdown voltage potential is applied across the power semiconductor device . If it is not another trimming step may be performed resulting in the device depicted in where an additional portion of the upper middle of each implanted region has been removed. Then one or more of the power semiconductor devices are again probed to measure an electrical characteristic of these devices such as the leakage current. If the measured leakage current indicates that the power semiconductor device has at least a minimum desired breakdown voltage then operations may cease and the wafer may be deemed acceptable. If not additional trimming and probing steps may be performed until it is determined that the power semiconductor device have at least the minimum desired breakdown voltage or until it is determined that the power semiconductor device will not meet the minimum desired breakdown voltage.

The trimming steps in the above described process according to embodiments of the present invention may be performed using traditional etching techniques. For example an etch mask may be formed on the wafer using photolithography and then the implanted regions may be etched via an isotropic etching step.

Currently implanted JTE edge terminations may be formed using a calibration process in which the JTE zones of multiple power semiconductor devices which devices can be on different wafers or on the same wafer are implanted with different doses of dopants. For example the implanted regions of the JTE zones which implanted regions would decrease in size with increasing distance from the active region as discussed above with respect to in order to provide a step wise decreasing dopant profile of a first group of power semiconductor devices on a wafer may be implanted with a dose of 1 10boron atoms cm the JTE zones of a second group of power semiconductor devices on the wafer may be implanted with a dose of 2 10boron atoms cm the JTE zones of a third group of power semiconductor devices on the wafer may be implanted with a dose of 3 10boron atoms cm the JTE zones of a fourth group of power semiconductor devices on the wafer may be implanted with a dose of 4 10boron atoms cm etc. The wafer that is formed in this fashion is sent through a complete or abbreviated fabrication run and then the breakdown voltages of the power semiconductor devices are measured. The implantation dosage used with respect to the group of power semiconductor devices that achieved the highest average breakdown voltage perhaps excluding any power semiconductor devices that appear to be defective may then be selected as the implantation dosage to use for the JTE zones on all of the power semiconductor devices on subsequently fabricated wafers.

This approach may have certain disadvantages. First in research and development processes the design and or fabrication parameters e.g. doping levels growth and annealing temperatures photolithography and etching parameters and processes etc. of the power semiconductor devices may undergo almost constant change. This may also be true to a somewhat lesser extent with production processes as semiconductor growth parameters may be changed on a routine basis even during production runs. When the design and or fabrication parameters a power semiconductor device are changed significantly e.g. the doping density of the drift region is changed then the JTE implant process will typically need to be recalibrated as the optimal ion implantation dosages for the JTE zones will typically vary with design changes. The same is true if the ion implantation conditions change e.g. different implant temperature or energy higher or lower dose rates etc. or the conditions for the dopant activation step e.g. the anneal temperature . Growing and testing one or more calibration wafers every time that design or processing parameters change can add considerable expense and delay to an already expensive and time consuming process. As high power semiconductor devices tend to be for limited production runs the costs of fabricating calibration wafers may be cost prohibitive in some applications.

As discussed above pursuant to embodiments of the present invention the use of calibration wafers may be reduced or eliminated as the implanted regions of the JTE zones may be trimmed during the processing of the wafer so that each wafer may be self calibrated during the fabrication process. This approach advantageously allows the calibration process to take into account and control for per wafer differences in for example the doping of the drift region and other regions of the device which can impact the optimal dosages for the JTE zones. In practice the per wafer difference in the amount of activated dopants in the drift region and other regions of the device may vary by as much as 100 or more in the case of low doped wafers for high power semiconductor devices. The calibration processes according to embodiments of the present invention may vary the doping levels of the JTE zones in a manner that takes into account the actual concentration of activated dopants in the drift region. Thus pursuant to embodiments of the present invention the process for calibrating the dosage of the JTE zones can be simplified and power semiconductor devices can be fabricated that have higher breakdown voltages. The in process calibration techniques according to embodiments of the present invention may be applied on a per wafer basis on different groups of devices on a wafer e.g. four groups of devices may be processed differently or even on a per device basis. The ability to calibrate individual devices on a wafer or groups of devices on a wafer differently may be advantageous in some cases as semiconductor growth can differ across a wafer making optimum doping densities for the JTE zones potentially dependent on the location of the JTE edge termination on the wafer.

The power semiconductor device also act similarly when the activated dopant density in the implanted regions of the JTE zones is too low. In particular as shown in Region A of if the activated dopant density is too low then the JTE edge termination will not act sufficiently to mitigate electric field crowding at the edges of the active region and hence the increased electric field that results when the activated dopant density is too low may also result in increased leakage currents that may significantly lower the reverse breakdown voltage of the device. As shown in the curve between Region A and Region B is also steep indicating that if the activated dopant density becomes too low then even very small decreases in the activated dopant density in the implanted regions of the JTE zones can lead to very large decreases in the breakdown voltage of the device.

In contrast to the above described transition regions shows that in Region B the breakdown voltage of the power semiconductor device may remain fairly constant over a fairly wide range of activated dopant densities. While the curve throughout much of Region B is relatively flat it will be appreciated that the breakdown voltage may vary by for example hundreds of volts even in the center portion of Region B. Consequently it may be advantageous in certain embodiments to identify an activated dopant density that provides a breakdown voltage that is at or near the maximum breakdown voltage.

As described above with reference to in some embodiments of the present invention in process wafer probing and trimming may be performed until the device achieves a minimum specified breakdown voltage. However in other embodiments additional probing may be performed in an effort to dope the power semiconductor device to a level that provides a breakdown voltage that exceeds the minimum specified breakdown voltage.

In particular pursuant to further embodiments the probing and trimming steps discussed above with reference to may be repeated one or more times after the probing step indicates that a minimum desired breakdown voltage has been achieved. By way of example after some number of probing steps and trimming steps it may be determined that the power semiconductor devices have achieved a minimum desired breakdown voltage. Once this determination is made additional trimming and probing steps may be performed until it is determined that a trimming step resulted in a reduction in the breakdown voltages of the power semiconductor devices. Using this approach it may be possible to manufacture power semiconductor devices that provide improved reverse breakdown performance. In some cases the process may be further modified so that during each trimming step only a small number of the JTE edge terminations on the wafer are initially trimmed e.g. between one and five . Then a probing step is performed to see if this trimming improved or degraded the breakdown voltage. If the probing step indicates that the additional trimming step increased the breakdown voltage then the remaining JTE edge terminations may be trimmed. If however the probing step indicates that the additional trimming step decreased the breakdown voltage then the remaining JTE edge terminations are not trimmed further and the process may end. In this manner most of the JTE edge terminations may be trimmed an amount that may provide a breakdown voltage that is close to a maximum breakdown voltage for the device.

It will be appreciated that many additional modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the teachings of the present invention. By way of example is a cross sectional diagram of a power semiconductor device having a JTE edge termination according to further embodiments of the present invention. As shown in in this embodiment during the trimming steps substantially the entirety of the implanted regions A B C D E may be etched as may portions of the n type regions A B C D E. Otherwise the power semiconductor device may be formed in the exact same manner as the power semiconductor device that is described above.

As yet another example is a cross sectional diagram of a power semiconductor device having a JTE edge termination according to still further embodiments of the present invention. As shown in in this embodiment substantially the entirety of the JTE zones A B C D E may be etched during the trimming steps. As a result the active region may be elevated on a mesa as compared to the JTE edge termination region . Since the implanted p type regions A B C D E may be more heavily doped than the n type regions A B C D E and or may on average be larger than the n type regions A B C D E the effect of this etching step may be to reduce the effective number of activated p type dopants in the JTE edge termination . As shown in in some embodiments after the trimming steps are completed a top surface of the JTE zones may be located between a top surface of the p regions and a bottom surface of the p regions .

As shown in pursuant to further embodiments a power semiconductor device that is similar to the power semiconductor device of may be formed. The power semiconductor device includes a n substrate and an n drift region in which an active region and a JTE edge termination are formed. The JTE edge termination includes a plurality of JTE zones A B C D E which are formed during a single ion implantation step and which each have substantially the same dopant density. As shown in after the power semiconductor device having uniformly doped and uniformly sized JTE zones is formed the JTE zones A B C D E are selectively etched to have decreasing concentrations of activated p type dopants with increasing distance from the active region. In particular as shown in each JTE zone A B C D E is etched a different amount with the JTE zones A B C D E that are farther from the active region being etched a greater amount. Consequently the relative heights of the JTE zones provide a desired profile of decreasing dopant concentrations. Once the power semiconductor device of is formed the methods according to embodiments of the present invention may be performed to probe and trim the JTE zones further until the device achieves a desired breakdown voltage. The JTE zones may for example be etched a uniform amount during the trimming processes.

In the above described methods according to embodiments of the present invention a series of probing and trimming steps may be performed. It will be appreciated that in the probing steps an electrical characteristic of the same power semiconductor device or devices may be measured each time or that the electrical characteristic of different power semiconductor devices may be measured each time or some of the times. It will also be appreciated that in many cases in each probing step at least several power semiconductor devices will be probed to provide more reliable results.

According to still further embodiments of the present invention JTE edge terminations may be adjusted by processes other than trimming processes. For example pursuant to embodiments of the present invention instead of etching the JTE zones in order to reduce the number of activated p type dopants n type dopants may instead be implanted into the p type regions of the JTE zones in order to reduce the effective doping level of the JTE zones .

Various embodiments of the present invention have been described above with reference to devices that have n type substrates and drift regions and p type implanted regions in the JTE zones. It will be appreciated however that the conductivity type of the various layers and regions may be reversed to provide opposite conductivity type devices.

The above described methods of forming JTE edge terminations according to embodiments of the present invention may be used in a wide variety of power semiconductor devices includes Schottky diodes JBS diodes diodes MOSFETs IGBTs MOS controlled thyristors and other power semiconductor devices. Particular embodiments of the present invention provide edge termination structures for silicon carbide SiC devices. For example embodiments of the present invention may be utilized as edge terminations for SiC Schottky diodes JBS diodes MPS diodes MOSFETSs IGBTs MOS controlled thyristors GTOs and other such SiC devices.

Embodiments of the present invention have been described above with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. It will be appreciated however that this invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth above. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. are used throughout this specification to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. The term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Relative terms such as below or above or upper or lower or horizontal or lateral or vertical may be used herein to describe a relationship of one element layer or region to another element layer or region as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that these terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the invention. The thickness of layers and regions in the drawings may be exaggerated for clarity. Additionally variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected.

Some embodiments of the invention are described with reference to semiconductor layers and or regions which are characterized as having a conductivity type such as n type or p type which refers to the majority carrier concentration in the layer and or region. Thus n type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of negatively charged electrons while p type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of positively charged holes. Some material may be designated with a or as in n n p p n n p p or the like to indicate a relatively larger or smaller concentration of majority carriers compared to another layer or region. However such notation does not imply the existence of a particular concentration of majority or minority carriers in a layer or region.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

