---

title: Method, apparatus and system for mobile terminal to remotely control television
abstract: The present invention discloses a method, an apparatus and a system for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television. The method includes: obtaining widget coding information of a widget included in a current GUI of a television; sending a graph reproduction control command to a mobile terminal wirelessly connected to the television, where the graph reproduction control command includes the widget coding information used for instructing the mobile terminal to generate a control interface including a widget corresponding to the widget coding information; receiving input event information sent by the mobile terminal, where the input event information includes operation object information and operation instruction information that are captured by the mobile terminal in the control interface; and determining a target widget in the current GUI of the television according to the operation object information, and performing an operation corresponding to the operation instruction information on the target widget.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09088749&OS=09088749&RS=09088749
owner: Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
number: 09088749
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20130312
---
This application claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 201210075656.0 filed on Mar. 21 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to communications technologies and in particular to a method an apparatus and a system for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television.

Currently cell phones are very widely used. If a television can be remotely controlled through a cell phone it may become very convenient for a user to use. The prior art enables communication between a cell phone and a set top box of a television. The set top box sends to the cell phone program information of an electronic program guide Electronic Program Guide EPG for short sent by a radio broadcast network. The user browses the program information through a screen of the cell phone selects a favorite program from the program information and sends a selection result to the set top box through the cell phone. The set top box switches to a corresponding frequency point according to the selection result descrambles and decodes a program at the frequency point and outputs the content of the program to the television so as to display the content of the program through the television.

However the prior art can only implement long distance control of the program information about the EPG between the cell phone and the television. As the television implements increasingly diverse functions for example some televisions may implement functions of applications such as web page access through a browser television menus and television games and because these applications correspond to complex graphic television interfaces and involve a large amount of data these graphic television interfaces cannot be operated and controlled by the cell phone by using the prior art.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a method an apparatus and a system for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television which are used for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television with a low cost.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a method for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television which includes 

sending a graph reproduction control command to a mobile terminal wirelessly connected to the television where the graph reproduction control command includes the widget coding information used for instructing the mobile terminal to generate a control interface including a widget corresponding to the widget coding information 

receiving input event information sent by the mobile terminal where the input event information includes operation object information and operation instruction information that are captured by the mobile terminal in the control interface and

determining a target widget in the current GUI of the television according to the operation object information and performing on the target widget an operation corresponding to the operation instruction information.

An embodiment of the present invention also provides another method for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television which includes 

receiving a graph reproduction control command sent by a television wirelessly connected to a mobile terminal where the graph reproduction control command includes widget coding information of a widget included in a current GUI of the television 

according to an API interface function used for widget management in a local GUI system of the mobile terminal generating a control interface including a widget corresponding to the widget coding information and

when an input event for the control interface is captured sending to the television corresponding input event information used for instructing the television to perform on the current GUI of the television processing corresponding to the input event information where the input event information includes operation object information and operation instruction information.

An embodiment of the present invention also provides an apparatus for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television which includes 

a widget coding information obtaining module configured to obtain widget coding information of a widget included in a current GUI of a television 

a reproduction control command sending module configured to send a graph reproduction control command to a mobile terminal wirelessly connected to the television where the graph reproduction control command includes the widget coding information used for instructing the mobile terminal to generate a control interface including a widget corresponding to the widget coding information 

an input event information receiving module configured to receive input event information sent by the mobile terminal where the input event information includes operation object information and operation instruction information that are captured by the mobile terminal in the control interface and

a control module configured to determine a target widget in the current GUI of the television according to the operation object information and perform on the target widget an operation corresponding to the operation instruction information.

An embodiment of the present invention also provides another apparatus for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television which includes 

a graph reproduction control command receiving module configured to receive a graph reproduction control command sent by a television wirelessly connected to a mobile terminal where the graph reproduction control command includes widget coding information of a widget included in a current GUI of the television 

a control interface generating module configured to generate according to an API interface function used for widget management in a local GUI system of the mobile terminal a control interface including a widget corresponding to the widget coding information and

an input event sending module configured to when an input event for the control interface is captured send to the television corresponding input event information used for instructing the television to perform on the current GUI of the television processing corresponding to the input event information where the input event information includes operation object information and operation instruction information.

An embodiment of the present invention also provides a system for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television which includes 

a television a mobile terminal a first apparatus for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television and a second apparatus for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television where

the first apparatus for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television is one apparatus for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television in which the apparatus is described above and is arranged by integrating with the television or is arranged separated from the television and is connected to the television and

the second apparatus for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television is another apparatus for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television in which the apparatus is described above and is wirelessly connected to the first apparatus for a mobile terminal to remotely control a television and is arranged by integrating with the mobile terminal or is arranged separated from the mobile terminal and is connected to the mobile terminal.

In the above technical solutions provided by the embodiments of the present invention by establishing a wireless connection between the television and the mobile terminal the widget coding information of the widget included in the current GUI of the television is sent to the mobile terminal so as to reproduce on the mobile terminal the control interface including the corresponding widget. The input event information captured by the mobile terminal in the control interface is obtained. Based on the input event information the controlling and corresponding operation is performed on a corresponding target of the current GUI of the television thereby implementing long distance control of the television by the mobile terminal. The television only sends the widget coding information of the widget included in the current GUI of the television to the mobile terminal. Therefore on one hand the amount of data transferred between the television and the mobile terminal is reduced thereby saving bandwidth on the other hand the difficulty of reproducing the current GUI of the television by the mobile terminal is simplified and long distance control of a complex television GUI implemented by the mobile terminal may be supported thereby implementing the long distance control of the television by the mobile terminal with a low cost.

To make the objectives technical solutions and advantages of the embodiments of the present invention more comprehensible the technical solutions in the embodiments of the present invention are clearly described in the following with reference to the accompanying drawings in the embodiments of the present invention. Apparently the embodiments to be described are merely a part rather than all of the embodiments of the present invention. All other embodiments obtained by persons skilled in the art based on the embodiments of the present invention without creative efforts shall fall within the protection scope of the present invention.

The sequence numbers of the following embodiments of the present invention are merely for description and do not imply the preference among the embodiments.

11 Obtain widget coding information of a widget included in a current graphic user interface Graphic User Interface GUI for short of a television.

When a GUI program of the television displays the GUI on the television the current GUI of the television may be parsed so as to determine one or more widgets included in the current GUI of the television and obtain the widget coding information of the widgets. A widget may include but is not limited to a button a text box a radio box and a check box. The widget coding information of the widget may include but is not limited to information such as a type of the widget information about the position of the widget in the current GUI of the television and a size and a shape of the widget. The widget is an interactive element of the current GUI of the television. Apart from the widget the current GUI of the television may also include other elements such as pictures backgrounds and characters. These elements are not used for performing operation and control so that these elements may not be sent to a mobile terminal thereby reducing the amount of data transferred between the television and the mobile terminal. In actual application to improve the display effect graph drawing coding information of the current GUI of the television may also be obtained so that the mobile terminal can draw a corresponding graph in a control interface according to the graph drawing coding information thereby improving the display effect of the mobile terminal.

12 Send a graph reproduction control command to a mobile terminal wirelessly connected to the television where the graph reproduction control command includes the widget coding information used for instructing the mobile terminal to generate a control interface including a widget corresponding to the widget coding information.

A wireless connection is established between the television and the mobile terminal in advance and a specific manner of the wireless connection is not limited. For example the wireless connection between the television and the mobile terminal may be established based on Bluetooth and WIN.

In a process of establishing the wireless connection between the television and the mobile terminal an input device and a display capability of the mobile terminal may be negotiated. For example a coordinate transformation relationship and an operation instruction coding correspondence between the television and the terminal and or a control interface resolution are negotiated where the control interface is a mobile terminal GUI which is on the mobile terminal and used for reproducing the current GUI of the television.

In the embodiment of the present invention the television generally refers to a display apparatus with a big screen such as a smart television having a built in set top box or an ordinary television having an external set top box and the mobile terminal may be for example a smart phone or an IPAD.

13 Receive input event information sent by the mobile terminal where the input event information includes operation object information and operation instruction information that are captured by the mobile terminal in the control interface.

According to an application programming interface API interface function for short used for widget management in a local GUI system the mobile terminal generates the control interface including the widget corresponding to the widget coding information.

An event is an operation that may be identified by a widget for example an operation of pressing an OK button selecting a certain radio button or check box. Every widget corresponds to an event that can be identified by the widget for example events like loading of a form clicks and double clicks and changes of the text of a text box. In the embodiment of the present invention an input event refers to an operation that is performed in the control interface and may be identified by the widget.

When a user stimulates an operation related to an event in the control interface the control interface captures relevant information of the current input event that is the input event information in the embodiment of the present invention and sends the relevant information of the current input event to the television side.

14 Determine a target widget in the current GUI of the television according to the operation object information and perform on the target widget an operation corresponding to the operation instruction information.

The input event information may include the operation object information and the operation instruction information where the operation object information is used for determining a target widget to which the input event is oriented and the operation instruction information is used for representing the content of a specific operation performed on the target widget. The target widget can be determined in the current GUI of the television according to the operation object information. The operation instruction information may be converted into television operation instruction information that can be identified by the television and a corresponding operation can be performed on the target widget according to a television operation instruction.

In the method provided by this embodiment by establishing a wireless connection between the television and the mobile terminal the widget coding information of the widget included in the current GUI of the television is sent to the mobile terminal so as to reproduce on the mobile terminal the control interface including the corresponding widget. The input event information captured by the mobile terminal in the control interface is obtained. Based on the input event information the controlling and corresponding operation is performed on a corresponding target of the current GUI of the television thereby implementing long distance control of the television by the mobile terminal. The television only sends the widget coding information of the widget included in the current GUI of the television to the mobile terminal. Therefore on one hand the amount of data transferred between the television and the mobile terminal is reduced thereby saving the on the other hand the difficulty of reproducing the current GUI of the television by the mobile terminal is simplified and long distance control of a complex television GUI implemented by the mobile terminal may be supported thereby implementing the long distance control of the television by the mobile terminal with a low cost.

21 Receive a graph reproduction control command sent by a television wirelessly connected to a mobile terminal where the graph reproduction control command includes widget coding information of a widget included in a current GUI of the television.

The graph reproduction control command is used for instructing the mobile terminal to generate a control interface including a widget corresponding to the widget coding information. The widget may include but is not limited to a button a text box a radio box and a check box. The widget coding information of the widget may include but is not limited to information such as a type of the widget information about the position of the widget in the current GUI of the television and a size and a shape of the widget.

22 According to an API interface function used for widget management in a local GUI system of the mobile terminal generate the control interface including the widget corresponding to the widget coding information.

In the local GUI system of the mobile terminal an API interface function corresponding to the type of the widget is determined and other information such as the information about the position of the widget and the size and the shape of the widget is used as input parameters of the API interface function. Subsequently the API interface function is executed to obtain a mobile terminal GUI interface including the widget that is the control interface described in the embodiment of the present invention. If the graph reproduction control command includes widget coding information of multiple widgets a corresponding widget may be generated according to widget coding information of each widget thereby obtaining a control interface including these widgets.

23 When an input event for the control interface is captured send to the television corresponding input event information used for instructing the television to perform on the current GUI of the television processing corresponding to the input event information where the input event information includes operation object information and operation instruction information.

When a user stimulates an operation related to an event in the control interface the control interface captures relevant information of the current input event that is the input event information in the embodiment of the present invention and sends the relevant information of the current input went to the television side. The input event information may include the operation object information and the operation instruction information where the operation object information is used for determining a target widget to which the input event is oriented and the operation instruction information is used for representing the content of a specific operation performed on the target widget.

In the method provided by this embodiment by establishing a wireless connection between the television and the mobile terminal the mobile terminal receives the widget coding information of the widget included in the current GUI of the television and reproduces the control interface including the corresponding widget by using the local GUI system of the mobile terminal. When the user triggers an input event in the control interface the mobile terminal may send the input event information to the television so that the television correspondingly processes the current GUI of the television based on the input event information. Therefore long distance control of a complex television GUI implemented by the mobile terminal may be supported thereby implementing long distance control of the television by the mobile terminal with a low cost.

Based on the above technical solution alternatively the mobile terminal may remotely control the television based on a touch screen of the mobile terminal. In this situation the input event information is screen touch input event information the operation object information is coordinate information related to a touch operation and the operation instruction information is touch operation instruction information. When capturing a screen touch input event for the control interface the mobile terminal sends corresponding screen touch input event information to the television. The screen touch input event information includes the coordinate information related to a touch operation and the touch operation instruction information. According to a coordinate transformation relationship negotiated by the television and the mobile terminal in a process of establishing the wireless connection the television performs coordinate transformation on the coordinate information related to a touch operation and determines according to a coordinate transformation result a target widget in the widgets included in the current GUI of the television. According to an operation instruction coding correspondence the television determines television operation instruction information corresponding to the touch operation instruction information and performs on the target widget an operation corresponding to the television operation instruction information. In the technical solution a touch control function of the mobile terminal may be multiplexed. Based on the visual control interface reproduced by the mobile terminal a remote operation may be performed on the complex GUI interface of the television. The operation method is simple and flexibility of interaction between the mobile terminal and the television is improved.

Further alternatively in the embodiment of the present invention the television is remotely controlled based on the visual control interface generated by the mobile terminal. Therefore in the remote control process the user may use an input method of the mobile terminal to input a corresponding event into a widget for example a text box in the control interface thereby multiplexing the input method of the mobile terminal in the control process of the television which helps to reduce the complexity of the operation and improves usage convenience of the user.

It should be noted that for brevity the foregoing method embodiments are represented as a series of actions. But persons skilled in the art should understand that the present invention is not limited to the order of the described actions because according to the present invention some steps may adopt other orders or occur simultaneously. It may be understood by persons skilled in the art that the described embodiments all belong to exemplary embodiments and the involved actions and modules are not necessarily needed by the present invention.

In the foregoing embodiments the description of each of the embodiments has respective focuses. For a part that is not described in detail in a certain embodiment reference may be made to related descriptions in other embodiments.

Persons skilled in the art may understand that all or a part of the steps of the method according to the embodiments of the present invention may be implemented by a program instructing relevant hardware. The program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium. When the program runs the steps of the method according to the embodiments of the present invention are performed. The storage medium may be any medium that is capable of storing program codes such as a Read Only Memory Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory Random Access Memory RAM a magnetic disk or an optical disk.

If the current GUI of the television is complex and the current GUI of the television includes a large number of and or a great variety of widgets to assist the user to perform intuitional and visual remote control on the mobile terminal alternatively an interface thumbnail of the current GUI of the television may be generated according to a control interface resolution that can be negotiated by the television and the mobile terminal in the wireless connection process and the interface thumbnail is sent to the mobile terminal. If the interface thumbnail is large the interface thumbnail may be partitioned compressed and sent to the mobile terminal so as to be convenient for the mobile terminal to browse.

The widget coding information Obtaining module may be configured to obtain widget coding information of a widget included in a current GUI of a television.

The reproduction control command sending module may be configured to send a graph reproduction control command to a mobile terminal wirelessly connected to the television where the graph reproduction control command includes the widget coding information used for instructing the mobile terminal to generate a control interface including a widget corresponding to the widget coding information.

The input event information receiving module may be configured to receive input event information sent by the mobile terminal where the input event information includes operation object information and operation instruction information that are captured by the mobile terminal in the control interface.

The control module may be configured to determine a target widget in the current GUI of the television according to the operation object information and perform on the target widget an operation corresponding to the operation instruction information.

Based on the above technical solution the apparatus may also include a wireless connection establishing module .

The wireless connection establishing module may be configured to establish a wireless connection between the television and the mobile terminal and negotiate in a process of establishing the wireless connection a coordinate transformation relationship and an operation instruction coding correspondence between the television and the terminal and or a control interface resolution.

The input event information is screen touch input event information the operation object information is coordinate information related to a touch operation and the operation instruction information is touch operation instruction information. Correspondingly the control module is specifically configured to perform according to the coordinate transformation relationship coordinate transformation on the coordinate information related to a touch operation and determine the target widget according to a coordinate transformation result and according to the operation instruction coding correspondence determine television operation instruction information corresponding to the touch operation instruction information and perform on the target widget an operation corresponding to the television operation instruction information.

In the apparatus provided by this embodiment by establishing a wireless connection between the television and the mobile terminal the widget coding information of the widget included in the current GUI of the television is sent to the mobile terminal so as to reproduce on the mobile terminal the control interface including the corresponding widget. The input event information captured by the mobile terminal in the control interface is obtained. Based on the input event information the controlling and corresponding operation is performed on a corresponding target of the current GUI of the television. Therefore long distance control of a complex television GUI implemented by the mobile terminal may be supported thereby implementing long distance control of the television by the mobile terminal with a low cost. A device entity of the apparatus provided by this embodiment may be a visual remote server Visual Remote Service VRS tier short a set top box and a digital television integrated with functions of a set top box and for a working mechanism of the device entity reference may be made to a corresponding record of the embodiment in which is not described here again.

The graph reproduction control command receiving module may be configured to receive a graph reproduction control command sent by a television wirelessly connected to a mobile terminal where the graph reproduction control command includes widget coding information of a widget included in a current GUI of the television.

The control interface generating module may be configured to generate according to an API interface function used for widget management in a local GUI system of the mobile terminal a control interface including a widget corresponding to the widget coding information.

The input event sending module may be configured to when an input event for the control interface is captured send to the television corresponding input event information used for instructing the television to perform on the current GUI of the television processing corresponding to the input event information where the input event information includes operation object information and operation instruction information. For example the input event information is screen touch input event information the operation object information is coordinate information related to a touch operation and the operation instruction information is touch operation instruction information.

Based on the above technical solution the apparatus may also include a wireless connection establishing module .

The wireless connection establishing module may be configured to establish a wireless connection between the television and the mobile terminal and negotiate a coordinate transformation relationship and an operation instruction coding correspondence between the television and the terminal and or a control interface resolution in a process of establishing the wireless connection.

In the apparatus provided by this embodiment by establishing a wireless connection between the television and the mobile terminal the mobile terminal receives the widget coding information of the widget included in the current GUI of the television and reproduces the control interface including the corresponding widget by using the local GUI system of the mobile terminal. When a user triggers an input event in the control interface the mobile terminal may send the input event information to the television so that the television correspondingly processes the current GUI of the television based on the input event information. Therefore long distance control of a complex television GUI implemented by the mobile terminal may be supported thereby implementing tong distance control of the television by the mobile terminal with a low cost. A device entity of the apparatus provided by this embodiment the apparatus provided by this embodiment may be a visual remote agent Visual Remote Agent VRA for short and a smart terminal and for a working mechanism of the device entity reference may be made to a corresponding record of the embodiment in which is not described here again.

In the system provided by this embodiment by establishing a wireless connection between the television and the mobile terminal the mobile terminal receives the widget coding information of the widget included in the current GUI of the television and reproduces the control interface including the corresponding widget by using the local GUI system of the mobile terminal. When a user triggers an input event in the control interface the mobile terminal may send the input event information to the television so that the television correspondingly processes the current GUI of the television based on the input event information. Therefore long distance control of a complex television GUI implemented by the mobile terminal may be supported thereby implementing long distance control of the television by the mobile terminal with a low cost. For each apparatus related to the system working mechanisms of each apparatus and the method for interaction between different apparatuses reference may be made to corresponding records of the above embodiments which is not described here again.

It should be understood that the system the apparatus and the method disclosed by the present invention may be implemented in other manners. For example the above described apparatus embodiment is merely exemplary. For example division of the modules is merely division of logical functions and practical implementation may involve other division manners. For example a plurality of modules may be combined or integrated into another system or some features may be ignored or may not be executed. Furthermore mutual connection between the shown or discussed modules or apparatuses may be implemented through some physical or logical interfaces and the connection may be in an electrical or mechanical form or in other forms.

The described apparatus embodiment is merely exemplary. The units described as separate parts may or may not be physically separate and parts displayed as modules may or may not be physical units may be located in one position or may be distributed on at least two network elements. A part of or all of the modules may be selected according to the actual need to achieve the objectives of the solutions of the embodiments. Persons skilled in the art may understand and implement the embodiments without creative efforts.

Finally it should be noted that the above embodiments of the present invention are merely intended for describing the technical solutions of the present invention other than limiting the present invention. Although the present invention is described in detail with reference to the foregoing embodiments persons skilled in the art should understand that they may still make modifications to the technical solution described in the foregoing embodiments or make equivalent substitutions to some technical features thereof without departing from the spirit and scope of the technical solution of the embodiments of the present invention.

