---

title: Method of preparing scintillation materials with reduced afterglow
abstract: Scintillation materials of this invention have an alkali halide host material, a (first) scintillation dopant of various types, and a variety of second dopants (co-dopants). In another embodiment, the scintillation materials of this invention have an alkali halide host material, a (first) scintillation dopant of various types, a variety of second dopants (co-dopants), and a variety of third dopants (co-dopants). Co-dopants of this invention are capable of providing a second auxiliary luminescent cation dopant, capable of introducing an anion size and electronegativity mismatch, capable of introducing a mismatch of anion charge, or introducing a mismatch of cation charge in the host material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08709155&OS=08709155&RS=08709155
owner: 
number: 08709155
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130809
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 959 437 filed Dec. 3 2010 entitled SCINTILLATION MATERIALS WITH REDUCED AFTERGLOW AND METHOD OF PREPARATION which in turn is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 619 354 filed Jan. 3 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 854 961 entitled SCINTILLATION MATERIALS WITH REDUCED AFTERGLOW AND METHOD OF PREPARATION which in turn is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 864 063 filed Jun. 9 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 180 068 entitled SCINTILLATION MATERIALS WITH REDUCED AFTERGLOW AND METHOD OF PREPARATION the contents all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

This invention was made partially with U.S. Government support from the National Institutes of Health NIH under contract no. 1R43CA92806 1 also referred to as CA92806 . The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to scintillation materials and more particularly to scintillation materials with reduced afterglow.

Scintillation detectors are used in a wide variety of applications ranging from medical imaging to high energy physics HEP . The development of new scintillators with better properties complemented by advances in silicon based readout technologies such as high gain avalanche photodiodes APDs have significantly advanced the present detector state of the art. High resolution x ray detectors based on amorphous silicon sensor arrays a Si H or charge coupled devices CCD in conjunction with scintillator films have been developed and are now routinely used in such applications as chest radiography and digital mammography. The medical community is particularly interested in new fast scintillators with high density and light output for applications in nuclear medicine single photon emission computed tomography SPECT positron emission tomography PET computed tomography CT and diagnostic x ray imaging.

While a wide variety of new scintillators are now available doped alkali halide scintillators have proven useful and practical. This is especially true of CsI Tl which is a highly desired material for a wide variety of medical and industrial applications due to its excellent properties low cost and easy availability. Having the highest conversion efficiency of any known scintillator 64 000 photons MeV a rapid initial decay 680 ns an emission in the visible range 540 nm and cubic structure that allows fabrication into micro columnar films CsI Tl has found extensive use in radiological imaging applications. Furthermore its high density 4.53 g cc high atomic number Z 54 and transparency to its own light have made it a material of choice for x ray and gamma ray spectroscopy homeland security applications and nuclear medicine applications such as intra operative surgical probes and SPECT.

Commercial applications such as CT require a very large number of scintillator elements so that the cost and availability of the scintillation material and any necessary machining have become very important issues. For instance the major advance in CT technology within the past few years has been the development of volumetric scanning capability using multiple ring detector systems that need as high as 10 000 detector elements per scanner and over 2 000 such scanners are produced annually. The material cost of the CdWOscintillator which is currently used in such systems is 40 cc compared to 1.6 cc of the CsI Tl . Another new exotic material which is now being used in CT systems is ceramic GOS which is even more expensive. Thus replacing CdWOor ceramic GOS with CsI Tl would result in substantial cost savings. Moreover the machining of CdWOpixels to dimensions as small as 0.8 0.8 mm becomes particularly expensive process due to the brittle nature of the crystal resulting in significant material loss during processing. By comparison CsI Tl is much easier to process so that replacement of CdWOwith CsI Tl would result in significant savings in machining costs. Finally high quality CsI Tl is widely available from a number of commercial vendors.

Another rapidly growing area with tremendous commercial impact is high speed digital x ray imaging. Such applications require imaging speeds ranging from 30 frames per second fps as in fluoroscopy to 10fps for analyzing ballistic impacts. Due to the limitations in the availability of x ray flux all such applications require a scintillator with very high x ray absorption and high light output. As such CsI Tl can be a prime choice in such applications.

Despite the obvious advantages of CsI Tl a characteristic property that has hindered its use in CT and many other high speed imaging applications is the presence of a strong afterglow component in its scintillation decay. Although the initial decay of CsI Tl has a characteristic time of 680 ns its residual afterglow at 2 ms after the excitation can be as high as 5 of the peak value depending on the intensity and duration of the excitation pulse. This causes pulse pileup in high count rate applications reconstruction artifacts in CT applications and problems of reduced contrast and image blurring in high speed x ray imaging.

CsI is a member of a family of halides that had been studied for decades. The scintillator aspects of some of these halides again came to the fore in the mid nineties because of newly developed medical applications CT PET and stimulated a great deal of research interest.

The archetype of all the alkali halide scintillators is NaI Tl which was discovered in 1948 and is still in some use today. Its companion alkali halide scintillators KI Tl and KCl Tl have played a very important role in our understanding of scintillator phenomena but have not been considered as viable scintillators for practical use.

It is the presence of Tl as an activator a scintillation activator that is responsible for the excellent scintillation properties of the alkali halides. Pure undoped NaI is not a good scintillator emitting only poorly at room temperature. At 78 K however it shows an emission band around 300 nm this is similar to most other alkali halides whose emission spectra are typical examples of self trapped exciton V e emissions. All are strongly temperature quenched making the decay time progressively shorter and reducing the efficiency of both radiative and excitonic transfer in most of these materials. Interestingly CsI is a special case in that it retains some luminescence even at room temperature. While thermal quenching keeps the quantum efficiency Q rather low it also gives rise to a relatively fast although non exponential decay of about 16 ns making the material useful where speed is the primary concern.

Upon doping with Tl however the situation is changed radically and CsI Tl has now become a highly important scintillator as did NaI before it. The Tl ion substituting at an alkali metal site is a well known luminescent center whose 5d6sconfiguration gives rise to a Sground state and excited states P P P P. The luminescence takes place from the lowest lying Ptriplet and is therefore spin forbidden. The initial decay is on the order of 0.6 s which excludes CsI Tl from PET but still leaves it fast enough for many other applications such as CT mammography and digital radiography.

The physical mechanism of scintillation in alkali halides is as follows When the material absorbs ionizing radiation its energy is deposited into the lattice in the form of electron hole pairs e h pairs . However since concentration quenching typically limits the Tl doping level to about the 1000 ppm range in CsI Tl very few of these charge carriers are formed close enough to the Tl ions to excite them directly. Thus in order to reach the emitting center almost all of the carriers must migrate over a significant distance. It is this migration of charge carriers and their radiative recombination via the Tl ion that constitutes the principal mechanism of scintillator light generation in CsI Tl .

A serious problem in all alkali halides is that the mobility of carriers is very small due to self trapping. This is particularly true for holes leading to the formation of Vcenters I molecules which can move only by a temperature dependent diffusive mechanism. Additionally since charge states Tland Tl are known to exist and have lifetimes longer than the radiative lifetime of the Tl emission either holes or electrons can be trapped by the Tl ions which then have to wait for the second carrier to arrive.

This is a primary reason for the complexity of the scintillation process in the alkali halides. Electrons and holes produced by ionizing radiation can both be trapped at thallium activators since both Tland Tl are stable in most alkali halides. Accordingly recombination can proceed by a number of different routes. Moreover holes may also be self trapped in the lattice forming small polarons called Vcenters that diffuse by thermally activated reorientation. Such Vcenters in CsI Tl created by prolonged x irradiation at low temperature were investigated by the technique of magnetic circular dichroism of absorption MCDA from which it was concluded that the Tl ions serve as shallow hole traps and consequently that persistent afterglow is unavoidable in this material.

The carrier mediated transfer in Tl doped alkali halides is complex. As in all sequential processes the overall rate is determined by the slowest step which in the halide case is likely to be the motion of self trapped holes diffusing Vcenters or the detrapping of electrons. Hole motion would be difficult to detect if not for the fortunate happenstance of a well defined 300 nm absorption band due to the Tl ion. The intensity and time dependence of this absorption provide all the information needed to define the hole capture kinetics. The contributions of the various processes manifest themselves at different times and can also be readily affected by temperature. The resultant luminescent decay can be broken into three time domains detailed below.

This contribution is largely due to the creation of an excited state Tl such as by recombination between a free electron and a hole trapped at a Tl site. In both NaI Tl and KI Tl a Tl ion captures a hole located in any of 25 neighboring unit cells before that hole has had a chance to self trap. This process is temperature independent and determines the initial decay rate of the pulse with a time constant characteristic of the Tl ion 200 ns . The contribution of this component to the total light output is not very large on the order of 10 . The hole motion is presumably a random walk from cell to cell but rapid enough to allow it to reach the ion before becoming self trapped. This process also plays an important role in some Ce activated scintillators.

Here the major process is a thermally activated diffusion of V self trapped holes allowing them to reach and recombine with electrons trapped at thallium sites Tl . This is the regime where individual halides differ because of the wide disparity in diffusion times ranging from 10s for NaI 10s for KI to 10s for KCl. Consequently the diffusion controlled long component is considerably less important in NaI Tl .

Here the dominant mechanism involves the prompt capture of electrons and holes at different thallium sites forming Tland Tl respectively followed by thermal detrapping of electrons from Tl and their subsequent capture by Tl to form Tl . This is the origin of the very long component in halide scintillators particularly evident in KI Tl where it contains 75 of the light output and lasts over 200 ms.

When utilized in radiation detectors the cesium iodide CsI scintillator absorbs photons of a given energy and converts their energy into photons of a lower energy the latter detectable by photodiodes or CCD arrays. These lower energy photons are guided towards a photodiode or CCD array where their energy is absorbed and used to generate charge or charge depletion. Cesium iodide CsI scintillators can have a single crystal structure or polycrystalline ceramic structure. In some applications each of the photodiodes or CCD elements is a picture element pixel resulting in spatial sampling of the image which is the first step in image digitization. In some detectors the CsI scintillator is deposited directly on top of the photodiode array. In some applications the CsI scintillator is grown in a multi columnar structure very thin needles that channels the lower energy photons towards the photo diode array. In other applications a lens fiberoptic guide or air spaces may be used between the scintillator and the photodiode or CCD elements.

There is a need for a method to fabricate scintillation materials with reduced residual afterglow in a multiple columnar structure.

Scintillation materials with reduced residual afterglow methods for fabricate scintillation materials with reduced residual afterglow where the scintillation materials have either single crystal or multiple columnar structure and systems utilizing the materials of this invention are described hereinbelow.

Scintillation materials of this invention have an alkali halide host material a first scintillation dopant of various types and a variety of second dopants co dopants . In another embodiment the scintillation materials of this invention have an alkali halide host material a first scintillation dopant of various types a variety of second dopants co dopants and a variety of third dopants co dopants . Co dopants of this invention are capable of providing a second auxiliary luminescent cation dopant capable of introducing an anion size and electronegativity mismatch capable of introducing a mismatch of anion charge or introducing a mismatch of cation charge in the host material.

In one embodiment of the scintillation material of this invention the base alkali halide material is cesium iodide the first scintillation dopant includes a thallium cation and the second auxiliary luminescent cation dopant includes a europium cation.

A method to fabricate scintillation materials of this invention where the scintillation materials have a multiple columnar structure is also disclosed.

The material of this invention can be utilized in but is not limited to radiation detectors and radiation transmission analysis devices.

For a better understanding of the present invention together with other and further objects thereof reference is made to the accompanying drawings and detailed description and its scope will be pointed out in the appended claims.

Scintillation materials with reduced residual afterglow methods to fabricate scintillation materials with reduced residual afterglow where the scintillation materials have either single crystal or multiple columnar structure and systems utilizing the materials of this invention are described hereinbelow.

In one embodiment scintillation materials of this invention have an alkali halide host material a first scintillation dopant of various types and a variety of second dopants co dopants . In another embodiment scintillation materials of this invention have an alkali halide host material a first scintillation dopant of various types a variety of second dopants co dopants and a variety of third dopants co dopants . The co dopants of this invention are selected to divert carriers away from the sources of the afterglow and recycle them rapidly enough to enhance the desired prompt emission.

The level of scintillation doping activator concentration required for an alkali metal halide scintillator depends upon the particular use of the scintillator. Factors affecting the choice of activator scintillation dopant for a scintillator and the concentration of the activator are well known to those skilled in the art. In general the level of activator scintillation dopant is less than about 10 mole percent and more preferably is in the range of about 0.005 to 0.5 mole percent.

In order to describe the present invention the invention is described with respect to but not limited to an embodiment having cesium iodide CsI as the host material and thallium cations as the scintillation activator dopant CsI Tl . Other embodiments of alkali halide host material with a first scintillation activator dopant include but are not limited to alkali halides having a first scintillation dopant including Group IIIA metal cation of which a thallium cation is one embodiment another embodiment being indium In a Group IVA metal cation such as a bivalent tin cation Sn or a bivalent lead Pb cation or a different halide as in the embodiment of cesium iodide doped with sodium Na . The first scintillation activator dopant provides centers that emit light due to mechanisms such as but not limited to radiative recombination.

To better understand this invention the scintillation behavior of standard CsI Tl without any co dopants is examined. Typical dopant molar concentration is an amount of substantially 0.2 to 0.6 . The behavior of standard CsI Tl without any co dopants is presented in as well as the four following Figures . On a log log plot the trace appears to have three distinct regions The earliest of these immediately after the rounded peak is essentially linear up to about 0.1 ms. The late afterglow tail after about 10 ms is also linear with a similar slope. In between however from approximately 0.1 to 10 ms a distinct upward bulge can be observed.

In one embodiment the co dopant introduces auxiliary luminescent cations in this embodiment by adding another appropriate emitting auxiliary luminescent species into the CsI lattice it may be possible to combine whatever chemical influence the co dopant can exert in reducing the intermediate term afterglow e.g. by charge mismatch with an increased emission at earlier times thereby making the residual afterglow even less significant relative to the initial peak. The approach is theoretically viable if the characteristic decay time of the emission from the additive is fast enough to direct a greater proportion into the desired early time regime.

In one embodiment the co dopant includes a lanthanide series cation. In a particular embodiment the co dopant includes a Ce ion. The resulting emission is strongly allowed and has a decay time less than 100 ns. The Ce ion is compatible with halide as well as oxide hosts. And additionally the Ce ion co dopant has the capability to exert a salutary influence on the long term persistent emission tail of CsI Tl .

Shown in is the decay behavior of one embodiment of CsI Tl co doped with a co dopant introducing Ce. The Ce cation co dopant behaves similarly to other cations with a charge mismatch. The Ce cation co dopant redirects some of the total emission to the prompt peak note the higher level of the trace extending as long as 10 s .

Another rare earth lanthanide series ion many of whose emission properties closely resemble those of Ce is Eu. The Eu ion also has a strongly allowed emission albeit with a somewhat longer decay time 1 s . The Eu ion peak emission is in the blue not much shorter than that of CsI Tl . And the lower charge 2 instead of 3 of the Eu ion makes it easier to incorporate into the CsI lattice. Also shown in is the decay behavior of CsI Tl with a co dopant introducing a Eu ion. The decay behavior of CsI Tl co doped with Eu ion exhibits improvements of factors of fifty. Moreover in the decay behavior of Csl TI co doped with Eu ion there is an increase in the fraction of the total emission that occurs within the first few microseconds.

The embodiments utilized to generate are crystalline samples. These embodiments of doped scintillator material crystals of this invention were fabricated using vertical Bridgman technique. For the embodiments utilized in a charge of 6 g of CsI Tl and 0.2 mole of the compound supplying the co dopant cation s such as EuIor CeI approximately 1.6 to 3.5 mg of material depending on the molecular weight of the co dopant was placed in a quartz ampoule and sealed under vacuum. The ampoule was passed through the heated zone 600 to 700 C depending on the co dopant at a rate of 10 mm hr. Embodiments can be obtained in which the molar concentration of the cation introduced by the co dopant the auxiliary luminescent cations introduce by co dopants such as EuIor CeIco doping CsI Tl is an amount of substantially 0.1 to substantially 10 but the present invention is not limited to such range.

Considering the emission from CsI Tl co doped with Eu ion the width of the light pulse increases by approximately 18 from 0.58 to 0.83 s in one embodiment with a commensurate increase in the integrated light. Considering spectrum of the x ray excited emission shown in the emission from CsI Tl co doped with Eu ion exhibits a second peak at about 485 nm corresponding to the characteristic emission of Eu. Since this peak is comparable in magnitude to that of the CsI Tl emission without co dopants it can be surmised that the Eu co dopant has not compromised the conversion efficiency of the CsI lattice.

Referring to the addition of Eu suppresses the intermediate term afterglow of CsI Tl by as much as a factor of fifty. For the embodiments utilized in a charge of 6 g of CsI Tl and 0.2 mole of compound providing the co dopant cation EuI was placed in a quartz ampoule and sealed under vacuum. The ampoule was passed through the heated zone 600 to 700 C at a rate of 10 mm hr. The beneficial influence of the addition of Eu extends from 10 s to 100 ms more than four orders of magnitude in time. In the millisecond regime the improvement reduces the CsI Tl afterglow at a time 2 ms after excitation to a level of 0.01 or lower relative to the peak emission intensity reached during excitation. The molar concentration of the europium cation in the embodiments in which CsI Tl co doped with Eu ion is an amount of substantially 0.1 to substantially 10 .

In another embodiment the co dopant introduces an anion size and electronegativity mismatch in the host material. In one embodiment the co dopants are alternative halides which substitute at I sites. Here we see some divergence of behavior. The scintillation behavior of CsI Tl with co dopants that introduce an anion size and electronegativity mismatch is shown in .

As can be seen from although the later afterglow tail is enhanced for a fluoride co dopant there is significant improvement in the millisecond time scale where the afterglow level is cut by as much as a factor of three. This behavior may be attributable to the extreme electronegativity of the fluoride ion which may be introducing traps too deep for carriers to escape in this time regime.

For the embodiments utilized in a charge of 6 g of CsI Tl and 0.2 mole of the compound supplying the co dopant anion s such as CsCl CsF or CsBr was placed in a quartz ampoule and sealed under vacuum. The ampoule was passed through the heated zone 600 to 700 C depending on the co dopant at a rate of 10 mm hr. Embodiments can be obtained in which the molar concentration of the co dopant anion in the embodiments in which the co dopant introduces an anion size and electronegativity mismatch in the host material such as CsCl CsF or CsBr co doping CsI Tl is an amount of substantially 0.1 to substantially 10 but the present invention is not limited to such range.

In yet another embodiment the co dopant introduces a mismatch of cation charge. In one embodiment the co dopant is an alkaline earth cation. The scintillation behavior of CsI Tl with co dopants that introduce a mismatch of cation charge is shown in . The co dopant cations shown in reduce the afterglow level in the millisecond range. Calcium cation co dopants provide improvement in the 0.1 10 millisecond range.

For the embodiments utilized in a charge of 6 g of CsI Tl and 0.2 mole of the compound supplying the co dopant cation s such as CaI or BaI was placed in a quartz ampoule and sealed under vacuum. The ampoule was passed through the heated zone 600 to 700 C depending on the co dopant at a rate of 10 mm hr Embodiments can be obtained in which the molar concentration of the co dopant cation in the embodiments in which the co dopant introducing a mismatch of cation charge such as CaIor BaIco doping CsI Tl is an amount of substantially 0.1 to substantially 10 but the present invention is not limited to such range.

In a further embodiment the co dopant introduces an additional anion charge mismatch. Introduction of an anionic charge mismatch into CsI Tl is not as straightforward as in the cationic case. The O ion is a reasonable candidate. But both cesium oxide and hydroxide are hygroscopic as well as corrosive to glass at elevated temperatures necessitating an indirect approach. This can be achieved by using the carbonate or bicarbonate of cesium both of which undergo substantial thermal dissociation at temperatures well below the melting point of Csl. The scintillation behavior of CsI Tl identical with either carbonate or bicarbonate as co dopants is illustrated in this resembles that of F but is somewhat greater in degree. Moreover the afterglow decrease covers a wider range beginning after only 20 s and extending almost three orders of magnitude.

For the embodiments utilized in a charge of 6 gm of CsI Tl and 0.2 mole of the compound supplying the co dopant anion s such as CsHCO CsCOor CsSO was placed in a quartz ampoule and sealed under vacuum. The ampoule was passed through the heated zone 600 to 700 C depending on the co dopant at a rate of 10 mm hr. Embodiments can be obtained in which the molar concentration of the co dopant anion in the embodiments in which the co dopant introduces an anion charge mismatch in the host material such as CsHCO CsCOor CsSOco doping CsI Tl is an amount of substantially 0.1 to substantially 10 but the present invention is not limited to such range.

The scintillation behavior of CsI Tl with either carbonate or bicarbonate as co dopants exhibits an enhancement in the longer term afterglow tail. In another embodiment having substantially the same result as carbonate and bicarbonate as co dopants the co dopant is a sulfate anion.

It should be noted that although the above embodiments have been described as separate co dopants any embodiment could be utilized as a second co dopant with another embodiment utilized as a first co dopant. Similarly any embodiment could be utilized as a third fourth or fifth co dopant and so on. Since co dopants of this invention are selected to divert carriers away from the sources of the afterglow utilizing different processes and affecting different regions of the afterglow behavior of the host material doped with a scintillation activator CsI Tl in the embodiment described above co dopants can be used in combination to obtain a desired afterglow response. In one embodiment the scintillation material of this invention has an alkali halide host material a first scintillation activator dopant a second dopant co dopant that introduces an auxiliary luminescent cation dopant and a third dopant co dopant capable of introducing an anion size and electronegativity mismatch in the host material. In other embodiments the third dopant is capable of introducing a mismatch of anion charge or capable of introducing a mismatch of cation charge in the host material. Further embodiments include embodiments in which the second dopant is capable of introducing an anion size and electronegativity mismatch in the host material and the third dopant is capable of introducing a mismatch of anion charge or capable of introducing a mismatch of cation charge in the host material and embodiments in which the second dopant is capable of introducing a mismatch of cation charge in the host material and the third dopant is capable of introducing a mismatch of anion charge or capable of introducing an anion size and electronegativity mismatch in the host material. Similarly any embodiment could be utilized as a third or fourth co dopant and so on.

Utilizing an embodiment of the method of this invention co doped CsI Tl Eu can be produced in the form of micro columnar films also referred to as multi columnar . The microcolumns effectively subdivide the deposited area into individual pixels with the concomitant improvement in resolution. The method of this invention co doped CsI Tl Eu by means vapor deposition of doped material. Since the vapor pressures of the various constituents differ by many orders of magnitude at the temperature of growth the sources that generate the constituent vapors must be maintained at different pre selected temperatures. In one embodiment glass or graphite substrates are used mounted on a stationary planet placed 25 cm from the source boats and maintained at 25 C. during the deposition cycle. The deposition was performed under high vacuum 10Torr conditions. shows an SEM of a CsI film codoped with both Tl and Eu produced in this manner.

In the embodiment shown in a charge of 100 g CsI Tl was placed in a source boat. Similarly EuIand CeI 2 5 g were placed in separate source boats. Substrates were mounted on a planetary substrate holder placed approximately 30.5 12 inches away from the source boats. The system was evacuated to 10torr. Argon gas was introduced to maintain the process pressure in the range of 1 to 10 mtorr. Temperature of various source boats was adjusted to control the rate of vapor deposition. The CsI Tl source boat temperature was approximately 700 C the EuI CeIboat temperature was between 450 C to 550 C.

Although a detailed embodiment of the method was utilized to obtain the sample shown in it should be noted that the method of this invention can be practiced with an alkali halide host material a first dopant capable of acting as a scintillation activator in the host material and a variety of second dopants including an auxiliary luminescent cation dopant a dopant capable of introducing a mismatch of anion charge in the host material a dopant capable of introducing an anion size and electronegativity mismatch in the host material or a dopant capable of introducing a mismatch of cation charge in the host material. Similarly the method of this invention can be utilized to introduce a third dopant from the same variety of dopants detailed herein above. The source of generate the constituent vapor of the third dopant must be maintained at a different preselected temperature.

It should be noted that although in the above description of the method of this invention the source boat temperature was controlled an equivalent method would include controlling the temperature of the material in each source boat. By selecting the temperature of each source boat the temperature of the material in each source boat is selected.

In another embodiment of the method of this invention the substrate includes an array of photodetectors. Such an embodiment enables the fabrication of a radiation detector. shows a radiation detector of this invention. The scintillation material includes an alkali halide host material a first scintillation dopant of various types and a variety of co dopants as disclosed herein above. The scintillation material is disposed over one or more photodetectors or an array of photodetectors where the photodetectors may be but are not limited to high gain avalanche photodiodes APDs amorphous silicon sensor arrays a Si H or charge coupled devices CCD . The scintillation material may be fabricated but not limited to the method describe herein above or may be fabricated as a single crystal by conventional methods or as a polycrystalline ceramic structure fabricated by conventional methods such as but not limited to the methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 242 221 incorporated by reference herein.

In yet another embodiment of the method of this invention an amount of an alkali halide host material doped with a scintillation activator and an amount of a compound supplying a dopant are placed inside a quartz ampoule container . The dopant is selected from the group consisting of a dopant capable of introducing an auxiliary luminescent cation in the host material a dopant capable of introducing a mismatch of cation charge in the host material and a dopant capable of introducing an anion size and electronegativity mismatch in the host material. The amount of the compound is such that a resulting molar concentration of the dopant is between substantially 0.1 and substantially 10 . The ampoule is sealed under vacuum. The sealed ampoule is placed in a heated zone a temperature of the heated zone being such that the doped host material and the dopant melt. The sealed ampoule is then displaced with respect the heated zone. The rate of displacement is selected such that the melted host material and dopant cool at a rate at which crystallization initiates. In one embodiment the rate is less than 14 mm hr and the temperature of the heated zone is between 550 C and 750 C.

In a detailed embodiment of the above described method of this invention the host material is cesium iodide CsI doped with thallium as the scintillation activator CsI Tl in an amount of 6 g. The molar concentration of the compound supplying the dopant is 0.2 mole approximately 1.6 to 3.5 mg of material depending on the molecular weight of the dopant . The ampoule is passed through the heated zone 600 to 700 C depending on the co dopant at a rate of 10 mm hr.

In still another embodiment of the method of this invention an amount of a compound supplying a second dopant is also placed inside the quartz ampoule. The second dopant is selected from the group consisting of a dopant capable of introducing an auxiliary luminescent cation in the host material a dopant capable of introducing a mismatch of cation charge in the host material a dopant capable of introducing a mismatch of anion charge in the host material and a dopant capable of introducing an anion size and electronegativity mismatch in the host material. The amount of the compound supplying the second dopant is such that the molar concentration of the second dopant is between substantially 0.1 and substantially 10 .

The radiation detector of this invention can be utilized in devices that are used for imaging analysis purposes. Although these imaging analysis devices are most commonly utilized in diagnostic imaging their utility is not restricted to this field and they are found in security applications baggage inspection industrial inspection cargo inspection aircraft quality control processes and the like. One class of these imaging analysis devices comprises the detection of transmitted radiation from a source. Examples of but not limited to such imaging analysis devices are x ray fluoroscopy computed radiography and digital radiography where an x ray source and a plate are placed on opposite sides of the subject to be examined and the absorption of the x rays along their path to the detector produces an image of the object being examined. In another example but not limited to of such imaging analysis devices one or more sources of x rays move along an arc around the subject and are detected on the opposite side by an arc of stationary or synchronously moving detectors. CT scanners are one example of such devices. In the above described embodiments the penetrating radiation is typically x rays. In other embodiments the penetrating radiation can be but is not limited to gamma rays or visible or infrared light.

Another class but not limited to of such imaging analysis devices are used to detect emitted radiation from the subject this radiation excited by an external source as in light and x ray fluorescence or neutron activation or resulting from an injected material typical of nuclear medicine applications which include single photon emission computed tomography SPECT and positron emission tomography PET .

In some embodiments of the imaging analysis devices emission and transmission devices are combined. In some embodiments the emission image provides physiologic information and the transmission image provides any of landmark visualization data for correction of the emission image for absorption effects and or diagnostic information.

All these devices have common requirements on the radiation detection elements Scintillators need to provide as much light as possible to improve energy resolution and signal to noise levels must have fast decay to support rapid operation need high stopping power for efficiency and dose reduction and need to be economically produced and easily fabricated. Some devices such as but not limited to CT scanners may have thousands and even tens of thousands of individual detectors and images may be formed in tens of milliseconds.

Although using different processes these imaging devices have common needs for their detectors. Hereinafter this class of devices is referred to as penetrating radiation imaging analysis devices.

While in the embodiment of the penetrating radiation imaging analysis device shown in the beam of radiation passes through the object embodiments in which the penetrating radiation imaging analysis device receives the radiation directly from the source of radiation without the intervening object are also possible.

Although the invention has been described with respect to various embodiments it should be realized this invention is also capable of a wide variety of further and other embodiments within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

