---

title: Systems and method for configuring mobile device applications based on location
abstract: Methods and systems for automatically configuring mobile device applications based on location are described. In an example, methods and systems for enabling contextual in-store experience modification on a mobile device can include capabilities for altering the functionality of a mobile application based at least in part on the location of the mobile device. For example, a mobile shopping application can be configured to perform different functions depending upon the type of retail location the mobile device is currently in. Additionally, the mobile application can be configured to enable different functions between a retail location and a user's residence, among other locations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451403&OS=09451403&RS=09451403
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09451403
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130802
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 695 196 titled IN STORE EXPERIENCE FOR MOBILE DEVICES filed Aug. 30 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright 2012 eBay Inc. All Rights Reserved.

This application relates generally to data processing within a network based system operating over a distributed network or data processing on a mobile device and more specifically to systems and methods for implementing a contextual in store experience for mobile devices.

The ever increasing use of smart phones such as the iPhone from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. with data connections and location determination capabilities is slowly changing the way people interact shop for products and services and even manage accounts. Smart phones can provide users with nearly instant information regarding a wide range of information such as product availability friend locations or pricing. For example applications such as RedLaser from eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. allow a smart phone user to scan a bar code and instantly check prices across online and local retail outlets. Smart phones also commonly include mechanisms such as global positioning system GPS receivers that allow the devices to constantly update location information. These technology changes are also driving changes in the way people wish to interact with mobile devices within different contextual locations e.g. retail stores at home or at school .

Location For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term location is used to refer to a geographic location such as a longitude latitude combination or a street address. The term location is also used within this specification in reference to a physical location associated with an event such as a vacation destination.

Real time For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term real time is used to refer to calculations or operations performed on the fly as events occur or input is received by the operable system. However the use of the term real time is not intended to preclude operations that cause some latency between input and response so long as the latency is an unintended consequence induced by the performance characteristics of the machine.

Context For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term context is used to refer to environmental inputs such as location time and weather conditions among others. The context generally refers to conditions describing an individual s e.g. user s environment and or activities. For example context information can include a user s location direction of movement current activity e.g. working driving playing golf shopping etc. current weather conditions time of day and time of year e.g. season among other things. In certain examples context information about a user can also include past events purchase history or other historical data about the user. In the following examples context can alter how a particular mobile device e.g. smart phone application operates on a particular mobile device. For example a mobile shopping application may enter different modes depending upon location. In this example if the user of the mobile device is at home the mobile shopping application may default to creation of a shopping list. In contrast if the user of the mobile device is in a grocery store the mobile shopping application can enter a grocery shopping mode displaying a repetitive grocery list. In yet another retail location such as an electronics store the mobile shopping application can enter a price comparison mode or access a wish list.

Example systems and methods for using contextual in store experience modifications on a mobile device are described among other things. Also described are systems and methods for generating and utilizing geofence enabled mobile application configurations on a mobile device. In some example embodiments the systems and methods for enabling contextual in store experience modifications on a mobile device allow a mobile device to seamlessly alter the functionality of a mobile application based on location context among other things. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. It will also be evident that contextual in store experience on a mobile device is not limited to the examples provided and may include other scenarios not specifically discussed.

Geofences can be used on a location aware mobile device to detect when a user of the mobile device enters a specific location such as a specific retail store. Geofences can be defined in terms of Global Positioning System GPS coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude combined with a radius measured in meters or feet for example. Alternatively geofences can also be defined according a series of GPS coordinates defining a bounding box. In yet other examples a geofence can be any geometric shape defined by a mathematical formula and anchored by a GPS coordinate. In certain examples location data points can also be used to detect movement trajectories which can be used to refine detection of presence within geofences representing a physical location e.g. retail store user s residence etc. . . . .

Using the concept of geofences or another means of location monitoring a mobile device can monitor location and signal a mobile application to change configuration based at least in part upon the current location of the device. For example RedLaser from eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. is a mobile shopping application that allows users to scan products and obtain pricing and other product information. The functionality that automatically occurs when a user scans a product e.g. a bar code Quick Response QR code or similar D matrix codes can be modified based on the current location of the mobile device. If the mobile device is located within a retail location the product scan can result in price comparison between the current location and online options for example. Alternatively if the mobile device is located within the user s residence scanning a product may bring up promotional materials or a user guide for the product. In yet other examples scanning a product may result in adding that product to a shopping list or online wish list. In some examples the mobile application can include user configurable options for default responses within various locations such as home work or individual retail stores e.g. electronics store versus grocery store among others. For example scanning a QR or bar code while in a grocery store can result in checking the product off on a shopping list as purchased. The mobile application can also provide information on a current location such as store hours address phone number return policies price match policy or top selling products among others.

Mobile applications such as RedLaser can also be configured to send notifications customized to a particular location. The notifications can be triggered when the mobile device or a central monitoring service detects that the mobile device has entered a particular location. For example upon entering a particular electronics retailer location the mobile application can provide offers deals inventory information or store layout maps tailored to that particular location. This information may allow the mobile device user quicker access to the desired product or incent purchase of desired items. In some examples the mobile application can interact with a network based publishing system that can be configured to send personalized notifications and offers customized for the individual user and the current location. For example a mobile device user may maintain some sort of online wish list or similar user profile information on desired products and services the online wish list can be matched against a retail location s current inventory and offers to produce a customized notification regarding opportunities for the mobile device user to make a purchase of an item on the wish list.

Mobile devices such as an iPhone from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. or a device running Android from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. can often only monitor a limited number of geofences at a given time. Additionally applications running on a mobile device commonly can only update monitored geofences when the application is opened by a user or at least active in memory on the mobile device .

In order to overcome the limitation of only being able to monitor a limited number of geofences a concept of geofence paging has been developed. Geofence paging can also provide a benefit of limiting the amount of memory required within a mobile device for monitoring and maintaining geofences. For example a mobile device operating according to an embodiment can monitor 10 geofences at any given time please note 10 is an arbitrary number and is not intended to limit the systems and methods disclosed herein . Nine of the monitored geofences are assigned to specific geographical locations of interest e.g. a retail store while the 10geofence geographically encircles the other nine. In some examples the nine smaller geofences are referred to as child geofences with the large encompassing geofence referred to as a parent geofence. In yet other examples the 10 geofences may be referred to as a page of geofences with the large geofence describing the boundaries of the page and the smaller geofences located within the page. The concept of geofence paging or parent child geofence groups is further discussed in a co pending application titled Passive Dynamic Geofencing for Mobile Devices by inventors Nate Lyman and Frank Russo filed on Aug. 22 2012 application Ser. No. 61 692 173. The Passive Dynamic Geofencing for Mobile Devices application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an example the users can configure an account on the network based publication system . The account can be accessed by each user such as user A using mobile device A or client A if user A meets the specified access criteria or rules. In an example the access rules can include user identification and location identification rules e.g. user must be located within a location supported by the network based publication system . A user account on the network based publication system can allow the user to define specific locations of interest for monitoring via geofences. In some examples the network based publication system can monitor user behavior and create geofences based on past and predicted user behaviors. In certain examples the network based publication system can be used by merchants as a location based advertising platform where users such as users opt in to location based advertisements. For example a national electronics retailer may use the network based publication system to provide location based advertising to users via mobile devices . In this example a series of parent geofences may be generated each encompassing a manageable number of geographically related retail locations. Each of the electronics store locations would be covered by a much smaller child geofence that enables the network based publication system to serve location based advertising relevant to the specific electronic retailer store location only when one of the users is in geographic proximity to the store based on the mobile device detecting a location within one of the monitored child geofences .

In other examples either the mobile device such as mobile device or the network based publication network can re configure a mobile application based on entry into a child geofence or via other location based determination and triggering mechanism .

For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the communication network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or other types of networks .

In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the communication network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network.

In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

A plurality of servers may be coupled via interfaces to the communication network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. These servers may be configured to provide various types of services to the mobile device . For example one or more servers may execute location based service LBS applications which interoperate with software executing on the mobile device to provide LBSs to a user. LBSs can use knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices to provide location specific information recommendations notifications interactive capabilities and or other functionality to a user. For example an LBS application can provide location data to a network based publication system which can then be used to provide access to a group account on the network based publication system . Knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices may be obtained through interoperation of the mobile device with a location determination application executing on one or more of the servers . Location information may also be provided by the mobile device without use of a location determination application such as application . In certain examples the mobile device may have some limited location determination capabilities that are augmented by the location determination application . In some examples the servers can also include publication application for providing location aware publication of data such as advertisements or offers. In certain examples location data can be provided to the publication application by the location determination application . In some examples the location data provided by the location determination application can include merchant information e.g. identification of a retail location . In certain examples the location determination application can receive signals via the network to further identify a location. For example a merchant may broadcast a specific IEEE 802.11 service set identifier SSID that can be interpreted by the location determination application to identify a particular retail location. In another example the merchant may broadcast an identification signal via radio frequency identification RFID near field communication NFC or a similar protocol that can be used by the location determination application . In addition to examples using these various mechanisms to identify a particular location these mechanisms e.g. SSIDs RFIDs NFC and so forth can be used as secondary authentication factors which are discussed in more detail below.

In certain examples the location configurable application can leverage the LBS application or the location determination application to assist in determining device location and proper location based configuration to apply.

Additional detail regarding providing and receiving location based services can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 848 765 titled Location Based Services granted to Phillips et al. and assigned to eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. which is hereby incorporated by reference.

An example geo location concept discussed within U.S. Pat. No. 7 848 765 is a geofence. A geofence can be defined as a perimeter or boundary around a physical location or mobile object e.g. a user . A geofence can be as simple as a radius around a physical location defining a circular region around the location. However a geofence can be any geometric shape or an arbitrary boundary drawn on a map. A geofence can be used to determine a geographical area of interest for the calculation of demographics advertising or similar purposes. Geofences can be used in conjunction with the offer generation and delivery concepts discussed herein. For example a geofence can be used to assist in determining whether a user or mobile device associated with the user is within a geographic area of interest e.g. target location to providing access to a group account. If the user is within a geofence established by provisioning of a group account the systems discussed herein can use that information to authorize the user to access the group account such as authorizing the user to process a payment against a group payment account.

An Application Programming Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication modules in certain examples these can also include commerce modules advertising modules and marketplace modules to name a few payment modules and geo location modules . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . In some examples the application server can access the databases directly without the need for a database server .

The publication modules may provide a number of publication functions and services to users that access the networked system . The payment modules may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment modules may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are advertised or made available via the various publication modules within retail locations or within external online retail venues. The payment modules can also be configured to facilitate payment processing based on geofence detection and work in conjunction with the geo location modules . The geo location modules may provide determination of current location among other things. While the publication modules payment modules and geo location modules are shown in to all form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment modules may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various publication modules payment modules and authorization modules could also be implemented as standalone systems or software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various publication modules payment modules and geo location modules via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the publication modules payment modules and geo location modules via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a smart phone application e.g. the PAYPAL payments application that enables users to process payments directly from their smart phones leveraging user profile data and current location information provided by the smart phone or accessed over the network .

In an example the rules engine can be configured to manage and evaluate rules controlling how one or more mobile applications can be configured in various locations or other contextual situations e.g. weather time of day time of the year etc. . . . .

The communication mobile can be configured to manage all communications involving the geo location module . In an example the communication module can be configured to manage communications between the geo location modules and a user where the user is communicating via the mobile device or the client .

In an example the generation module is configured to generate mobile application configuration packages e.g. files according to information provided by modules such as the account module the location module and the rules engine .

In an example the account module is configured to provision setup and manage a user account on the networked system . In certain examples the account module can provision a user account according to configuration data received by the communication module . The account module can also work in conjunction with the rules engine in provisioning or decommissioning user accounts.

In an example the location module is configured to receive location data from a mobile device such as mobile device and determine from the location data a current physical location which may include reference to landmarks or other sites of interest. In some examples the location module can receive GPS type coordinates e.g. longitude and latitude which can be used to establish a current location associated with a mobile device and thus a user of the mobile device . Using the longitude and latitude coordinates the location module can determine if the current location is within a current parent geofence for example. In certain examples the location module can receive other location determining information from a mobile device such as a photograph or scan of data only readily available at a certain physical location generally referred to as secondary location authentication factor . In another example some merchants may broadcast specific wireless network signals that can be received by a mobile device such as mobile device . Once received the mobile device can include programming or circuitry to translate the signal into a specific location or the mobile device can simply retransmit the unique signal to the location module . In an example a merchant location can transmit a unique SSID which the location module can be programmed to interpret as identifying a specific merchant location. In another example the merchant may broadcast a unique SSID within all of its locations and the location module can be programmed to use a combination of the unique SSID and other location data e.g. GPS coordinates or cell tower locations to identify a specific location. Further functionality that can be provided by the location module is discussed in reference to below.

Additional details regarding the functionality provided by the geo location modules are detailed in reference to below.

In some examples location determination mechanisms can also use location averaging to improve the accuracy of location determination. For example in addition to using trajectory tracking the networked system can also obtain multiple location data points from the mobile device to further refine the location data used in subsequent processing. Similarly the mobile device itself can also use location averaging to refine the position reported out or used by mobile applications for other location based services and processing.

In an example the method can begin at with the mobile device monitoring its current location. At the method can continue with the mobile device monitoring one or more geofences in reference to the current location of the mobile device . At the method can continue with the mobile device detecting entry into a monitored geofence. In an example the mobile device can detect entry into the monitored geofence including calculating a trajectory associated with the mobile device .

At the method can continue with the mobile device configuring a mobile application based at least in part on entry into the monitored geofence. In an example the mobile device can select a mobile application configuration based on the entered geofence e.g. physical location . In this example each geofence or type of geofence can have a mobile application configuration associated with it. Finally at the method can optionally include the mobile device altering a specific individual function of a mobile application based on presence within a geofence or physical location if determined through means other than geofencing .

The method can begin at operation with the networked system monitoring one or more geofences associated with physical locations. In an example the networked system can be configured to monitor geofences associated with various retail locations and other locations of interest to subscribing users e.g. users of a particular mobile application or users registered with the networked system . The networked system can also monitor multiple mobile devices such as mobile devices in reference to the geofences. At the method can continue with networked system receiving from a mobile device such as mobile device location data indicating a current location associated with the mobile device .

At the method can continue with the networked system determining based on the location data received from the mobile device whether the mobile device is within a monitored geofence e.g. within a physical location of interest . If the networked system determines that the mobile device is within a physical location of interest e.g. a geofence then the method can continue at with the networked system selecting a mobile application configuration corresponding to the physical location e.g. geofence . At the method can continue with the networked system transmitting the mobile application configuration to the mobile device .

Optionally the method can also include operation that includes the networked system receiving a mobile application function request from the mobile device . In an example the method can continue at with the networked system processing the mobile application function request based at least in part on the current location of the mobile device . For example if the networked system determines at operation that the mobile device is located within an electronics retail store the mobile application function request can be processed in light of this information. In this example if the mobile application function request includes a product identifier the networked system can interpret the function request as a price comparison request and process it accordingly.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connects the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of these. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal displays LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Thus a method and system for contextual in store experience modification on a mobile device has been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

