---

title: Methods and systems for prepaid mobile payment staging accounts
abstract: Prepaid staging account systems and methods are described that allow issuer financial institutions to quickly and efficiently launch NFC device payment programs. In an embodiment, a staging account provider computer receives a request to provision a mobile account. The staging account provider computer generates a mobile account PAN and associates it with a funding account PAN, and transmits a personalization request to personalize a payment application for the cardholder's mobile device to a trusted service manager (TSM) computer. The staging account provider computer receives a status confirmation message from the TSM computer indicating that the payment application has been personalized and loaded onto the cardholder's mobile device, and then transmits a mobile account initialization message that includes the mobile account PAN to the primary issuer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542673&OS=09542673&RS=09542673
owner: MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INCORPORATED
number: 09542673
owner_city: Purchase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131010
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 711 922 filed on Oct. 10 2012 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Payment cards such as credit or debit cards are ubiquitous. For decades such cards have included a magnetic stripe on which the relevant account number is stored. To consummate a purchase transaction with such a card the card is swiped through a magnetic stripe reader that is part of a point of sale POS terminal. The reader reads the account number from the magnetic stripe. The account number is then used to route a transaction authorization request that is initiated by the POS terminal.

In pursuit of still greater convenience and more rapid transactions at POS terminals payment cards have more recently been developed that allow the account number to be automatically read from the card by radio frequency communication between the card and a so called proximity reader which may be incorporated with the POS terminal. In such cards often referred to as proximity payment cards or contactless payment cards a radio frequency identification RFID integrated circuit IC often referred to as a chip is embedded in the card body. A suitable antenna is also embedded in the card body and is connected to the RFID chip to allow the chip to receive and transmit data by RF communication via the antenna. In typical arrangements the RFID chip is powered from an interrogation signal that is transmitted by the proximity reader and received by the card antenna.

MasterCard International Incorporated the assignee hereof has established a widely used standard known as PayPass for interoperability of proximity payment cards and proximity readers. Other proximity payment schemes are also increasingly in use.

It has been proposed that the capabilities of a contactless payment card be incorporated into a mobile telephone thereby turning the mobile telephone into a contactless payment device. These devices are referred to herein as near field communication NFC handsets or NFC mobile devices.

Currently there is significant effort and cost required for financial institutions that issue financial accounts to consumers issuers to start issuing their financial accounts such as credit card and debit card accounts on NFC handsets. The effort complexity and cost to develop systems necessary for deploying issuer financial accounts to a mobile device are significant entry barriers for many issuers. Many issuers simply desire to gain some experience with such a new form factor before committing to the high cost and effort of a full commercial roll out. Also some issuers are seeking low initial entry costs and low effort because the number of NFC handset financial accounts may be very low for the foreseeable future. It would therefore be desirable to provide an intermediate solution for issuers that is cost effective and relatively quick for deploying payment accounts for NFC devices so that the issuers need not make an immediate large money and time commitment to invest in the systems that ultimately will be required.

Pursuant to some embodiments of the present invention prepaid staging account systems and methods are provided that allow issuer financial institutions to quickly and efficiently launch NFC device payment programs. In some embodiments the prepaid staging account is a general purpose reloadable prepaid account that is configured to look like another issuer s product with that issuer s card image messaging and branding as used herein the issuer is referred to as the primary financial institution or primary issuer . The prepaid staging account is reloaded or topped up from a pre determined credit or debit account operated by the primary issuer the issuer that issued the original payment account that the staging account appears as . The primary issuer benefits in that they do not need to support NFC programs such as PayPass which is service offered by MasterCard International Incorporated chip transactions or Mobile PayPass . The staging account issuer the issuer that provides the prepaid staging account uses economies of scale to cover the development effort required to offer the service and thus may provide staging account services to a number of different primary issuer financial institutions.

As used herein a primary issuer may be a bank or financial services institution and is the owner of the consumer s or end customers primary card relationship. A staging account provider is the entity that will issue distribute and manage a pre paid account on a mobile device on behalf of the primary issuer. Thus the staging account provider is expected to bring to the primary issuer the necessary relationships and practical knowledge to deploy mobile accounts so that the primary issuer can be provided with the ability to deploy mobile financial accounts to their customers in a cost effective and timely fashion. In addition mobile infrastructure components may include one or more entities that will provide the functionality to personalize and manage the customer s handset or mobile device. In some implementations the mobile infrastructure components may include one or more of a Trusted Service Manager TSM a Data Preparation Service DPS a Mobile Network Operator MNO and a post issuance management service s .

In some embodiments the prepaid staging account service may be provided as a business to business service wherein providing staging account services is intended to be a commercial service offered to existing card account issuers allowing them to deploy a pre paid mobile account that is attached to an existing cardholders card based account. The staging account may be attached to any existing card account such as a credit account a debit account or a pre paid account and that card account may be based on a magnetic stripe technology or EMV technology or PayPass technology. In particular in some embodiments the service is provided under a direct relationship with and paid for by an existing card issuer or primary issuer. Thus the staging account provider may sell or otherwise provide the service to one or more primary issuers who then may promote the product to their cardholders. The staging account is therefore constructed such that the consumer the cardholder has a direct relationship with only the primary issuer and not the staging account provider.

In some embodiments the staging account is an online pre paid account that is configured effectively as a companion product to an existing customer s payment card account. But in some implementations the staging account primary account number PAN that is issued for use with the cardholder s mobile device is different than the PAN of the cardholder s payment card account. The cardholder s mobile device therefore does not replace the payment card account but instead may be considered as a companion device to it. Accordingly the staging account may be branded and marketed as a sub account of a cardholders existing payment card account. The pre paid balance used to authorize and settle transactions using the staging account although implemented as an on line prepaid balance can effectively be considered as an off line balance to the card account. However in accordance with some embodiments the cardholder may utilize his or her mobile device to monitor and top up the balance that is available for the staging account. As will be explained in more detail below cardholders may be able to utilize and or authorize the use of an automated top up function so that balance management from the cardholder is not necessary.

In some embodiments the staging account is to only be funded from the customer s card account that was issued by the primary issuer. Thus multiple funding source options are not available in contrast to general purpose reloadable GPR prepaid accounts . Such operation is fundamentally in accordance with the staging account being configured as a companion product to an existing card account. Since the funding source is fixed there is no option provided to allow other funding sources to be set up. Thus when the cardholder undertakes a top up of their staging account it is not necessary to select or enter details of the funding source because only one funding source exists.

Such a pre paid staging account is used to achieve complete separation from the systems of the primary issuers and that of the account deployed to the mobile device. Thus for example in the case of MasterCard International Inc. requirements regarding a MasterCard Mobile PayPass MMPP account that is issued to the mobile device the primary issuer does not need to process MChip or PayPass transactions. For many primary issuers this would otherwise require a very significant upgrade of their systems with associated costs in addition to providing significant efforts required for mobile accounts issuance.

In order to meet the objective of providing a primary issuer with the ability to deploy mobile accounts to their customers in a cost effective and timely fashion the staging account provider may offer one or more packaged options or staging account programs . Such staging account programs include most or all of the technical development and business agreements that are required to provide a mobile account to a consumer s mobile device. Thus a suitable staging account program allows a primary issuer to rapidly launch their mobile accounts program.

Pursuant to some embodiments the cardholders or users who are also mobile device users will enjoy a user experience such that they will likely be unaware that a third party staging account provider is involved in the process although in some implementations the relationship between the primary issuer the staging account provider and the consumer will be expressed in cardholder materials that include terms and conditions regarding the service . For example in some embodiments the primary issuer may refer to the staging account as the cardholders mobile account when providing transaction information and or documentation to a customer. In addition in some implementations the primary issuer does not permit internet purchases by use of a mobile device and places limitations on the maximum monetary amount allowed per transaction. Thus the primary issuer may further describe and or market the mobile account as being a specially protected account suitable for lower value payment transactions with added security protection to prevent fraud.

When the cardholder uses the payment card issued by the primary issuer all authorization and settlement messages are routed to the primary issuer during normal transaction processing. In accordance with the embodiments described herein when a cardholder uses the payment account on his or her mobile device all authorization and settlement messages are routed to the staging account provider. The staging account provider authorizes and settles these transactions using the pre paid balance that has been funded from the cardholders account with the primary issuer.

Reference is now made to in which a system pursuant to some embodiments is shown. The system as depicted includes a number of entities or devices that interact to provision or initialize a prepaid staging account for use by a mobile device belonging to a consumer or customer. Pursuant to some embodiments the mobile device is an NFC enabled device the details of which are described herein in conjunction with . The mobile device is operated by a consumer who wishes to add payment functionality to the mobile device . While only a single mobile device is shown in those skilled in the art upon reading this disclosure will appreciate that many mobile devices may be involved in the system.

The mobile device is in communication with a mobile platform and a staging account provider both of which may include one or more computers and or computer systems. Communication between the mobile device and the mobile platform and the staging account provider may be over one or more network communication links such as for example wireless communication links. For example the communication between the mobile device and the mobile platform may be over a cellular network connection the Internet or other direct wired or wireless connection including without limitation WiFi near field communication NFC or the like and communication between the mobile device and the staging account provider may be over the Internet a computer network or the like.

The staging account provider is in communication with one or more issuing financial institutions over a payment network . In some implementations the issuer financial institution has entered into a commercial agreement with the staging account provider that includes terms including how exceptional transaction items will be handled. The terms may also define consumer enrollment options cardholder charges cardholder terms and conditions marketing the solution and enrolling cardholders who wish to benefit from a mobile payment account. The terms also indicate the entity responsible for carrying out customer service and how this is communicated to the cardholder which may be undertaken in house by the issuer or implemented with the assistance of services provided by the staging account provider . The primary issuer also agrees to the type of digital wallet and User Interface UI that will be provided to cardholders together with any branding elements and how the card image is to appear on the mobile device. In addition the primary issuer agrees to the top up methods that will be available to cardholders and any transactional daily or weekly limits that may be imposed and agrees to the deployment methods to be used to deliver mobile accounts to the cardholder s handset and which handsets and or networks will be supported which may be defined by a staging account program . The primary issuer must also sign off on such matters as fraud liabilities lost payment card and or mobile device scenarios how returns for example of purchased merchandise and or charge backs are handled and how transactions declines due to insufficient funds are handled.

Referring again to The payment network may be for example a payment network such as the BANKNET network operated by MasterCard International Incorporated or other payment networks such as the VISANET network operated by Visa International Service Association . Payment networks are operable to route payment card account purchase transactions from acquirer financial institutions that serve merchants to issuer financial institutions and also support the transfer of funds from a funding account at the issuer financial institution to a destination account which may be a merchant account at a different or the same financial institution. In some implementations the staging account provider is associated with a prepaid financial institution which is the financial institution issuing and maintaining the staging accounts pursuant to some embodiments.

As depicted in several interactions occur to allow a prepaid staging account to be provisioned on a mobile device . For convenience and ease of exposition the interactions are labeled as arrows or items 1 5 and are numbered in a sequence which represents one possible sequence for provisioning a prepaid staging account. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other sequences or flows may be used.

At item 1 which may occur after a pre paid staging account request not shown by a consumer or user of a mobile device has been made an over the air OTA message may be received by the mobile device that includes data used to provision a prepaid staging account on the device . In some implementations the data for provisioning the prepaid staging account is transmitted from a mobile platform . The mobile platform may be operated by or on behalf of an entity such as MasterCard International Incorporated as a service to provision accounts on mobile devices. For example in some embodiments the mobile platform is or includes an over the air OTA provisioning service that allows NFC payment applications to be configured and transmitted to a mobile device for installation and usage by the mobile device . As a specific illustrative but not limiting example the mobile platform may include one or more server computers operating the MasterCard Mobile Over The Air Provisioning Service MOTAPS to cause the remote personalization of a payment application on mobile devices .

Pursuant to some embodiments the payment account provisioned at step 1 is associated with a prepaid staging account which includes account information associated with the cardholder the owner or operator of the mobile device and an associated prepaid staging account held at a staging account provider or more particularly at a prepaid issuer associated with the staging account provider . The payment account information associated with the mobile device allows transactions involving the mobile device to be routed to the staging account provider and the prepaid issuer . For example the payment account information may include a routing identifier such as a bank identification number or BIN associated with the prepaid issuer that causes transactions involving the payment account to be routed to the staging account provider and prepaid issuer for processing as will be described further below in conjunction with a purchase transaction depicted in . Thus in some embodiments the data transmitted to the mobile device may include metadata associated with the funding account for example account description data that may include a card layout descriptor which informs the payment application how to present information associated with the funding account on the display device and or product type data that indicates the type of funding account such as a credit card account debit card account prepaid debit card account or other financial product type . The product type data may be used for example to control the type and amount of interchange associated with transactions involving the payment application.

At item 2 an interaction is shown between the mobile device and the staging account provider . This interaction may occur after the mobile device has initiated communication with the mobile platform based on a consumer s indication of interest to begin the provisioning process and may be a request to associate a desired funding account with the staging account. The interaction at 2 may be over a cellular network e.g. over the air or it may be over a data connection such as over the Internet . In some embodiments the interaction labeled as item 2 may occur automatically after completion of the interaction labeled as item 1 e.g. a consumer operating a mobile device may automatically be prompted to provide information about a desired funding account to be associated with the prepaid staging account as soon as the initial provisioning of the account is completed .

Processing associated with item 2 may include presenting the customer with a series of user interfaces displayed on a display screen of the mobile device prompting the customer to enter information associated with a funding account to be used to fund the prepaid staging account. The funding account may be a financial account associated with credit card debit card or a bank account issued by an issuer or primary issuer . Once the customer enters information associated with the funding account the customer may be prompted to enter any other information required to comply with relevant regulatory requirements such as know your customer or KYC information . The staging account provider may cause a request message to confirm the status of the funding account e.g. as a request transmitted over the payment network at item 3 . The payment network routes the authorization request to the primary issuer the issuer of the funding account selected by the customer for authorization. If the request is authorized an authorization response is provided by the primary issuer e.g. a response transmitted over the payment network at item 4 and returned to the staging account provider . The funding account is then associated with the prepaid staging account allowing the prepaid staging account to be used to conduct transactions as if it were the funding account.

A confirmation response is transmitted to the mobile device at item 5 e.g. to cause a payment application on the mobile device to be updated for use to conduct payment transactions using the prepaid staging account . In some embodiments the confirmation response provides information to the customer indicating the amount of funds that are available for use in the prepaid staging account.

Pursuant to some embodiments the confirmation response or a separate message also includes information about the funding account such as card image information associated with the funding account e.g. if the selected funding account was the customer s United Signature MasterCard issued by Chase Bank the confirmation response may include the card image for that card so that the payment application on the customer s mobile device may appear as if it is the customer s United Signature MasterCard . That is the payment application on the mobile device appears to the customer or mobile device user as if it is the funding account and not the prepaid staging account.

In some embodiments a mobile device provider not shown which mobile device provider may be associated with the mobile platform may partner with a mobile staging account provider and with one or more issuers to offer mobile devices for sale to consumers that are pre loaded with a prepaid mobile staging account application program. A consumer who purchases such a mobile device such as a mobile telephone may initialize or run the pre loaded prepaid staging account application program to setup his or her own prepaid staging account. In this case by definition the consumer already has a financial account with the issuer FI associated with or sponsoring the mobile devices that include the preloaded prepaid mobile device staging application program. Thus in some embodiments the consumer may touch an icon on a touch screen of his or her mobile device to launch the preloaded prepaid mobile staging account application program and then be presented with one or more user interface screens. The interface screens may include one or more blank data fields for the consumer to enter identification information which can be matched to a funding account at an issuer FI associated with the mobile device provider. The funding account may be a financial account associated with credit card debit card or a bank account issued by the consumer s issuer FI . In case one or more funding accounts are found the consumer may be prompted to select which account to use to fund his or her prepaid mobile staging account. Once the consumer provides adequate information the prepaid staging account will be established and the funding account will be used to fund it.

In some embodiments data entered by the consumer during enrollment for the mobile staging account service is transmitted to the staging account provider which then confirms that the funding account exists for example the staging account provider may transmit a message via the payment network to the consumer s issuer FI requesting account verification . After the staging account provider receives an authorization message from the consumer s issuer FI the funding account is associated with a prepaid mobile staging account. A confirmation message may then be transmitted by the staging account provider to the consumer s mobile device indicating successful setup and in some embodiments indicating the amount of money funding the prepaid mobile staging account. After such a confirmation message is transmitted prepaid mobile staging account is ready for use by the consumer to conduct purchase transactions as if it were the funding account.

Reference is now made to which is a further view of the system and which depicts several interactions that may occur during a transaction involving the mobile device and the prepaid staging account that was already created and funded as described above for example with regard to . In particular shows interactions between a mobile device a merchant an acquirer financial institution a payment network a staging account provider or processor and a prepaid financial institution . The interaction begins when a customer having a mobile device with a prepaid staging account application stored thereon that has been initialized or provisioned pursuant to a process such as shown in chooses to use his or her mobile device and thus the prepaid staging account to conduct a purchase transaction at a merchant .

Accordingly at arrow 6 the consumer may present tap or wave the mobile device on or proximate to a NFC reader device not shown associated with the merchant during a purchase transaction for example tapping the mobile device near a point of sale POS device having an integrated NFC reader . The NFC reader device and the mobile device interact to provide payment account information from the mobile device to the NFC reader device for use in the transaction. The merchant then transmits or provides the payment account information in a transaction authorization request message to an acquirer at 7 . The acquirer transmits at 8 the transaction authorization request message to a payment network for routing to the staging account provider or processor . The transaction authorization request message may be routed to the staging account provider based on the bank identification number BIN associated with the payment account provided from the mobile device . The staging account provider may check with the prepaid financial institution at 9 to determine if the consumer s payment account has adequate funds for the purchase transaction. If the payment account has sufficient funds to complete the transaction an authorization response message is returned from the staging account provider or processor to the acquirer at 10 through payment network and the acquirer then passes the authorization to the merchant at 11 to complete the transaction. In some embodiments clearing and settlement processing for the transaction are performed using standard payment processing techniques.

While the acquirer may interact with the prepaid staging account processor over the payment network in some embodiments one or more alternate paths may be provided. For example in some embodiments the acquirer may interact directly with the staging account provider indicated as item 12 instead of going through a payment network .

In some embodiments the functionality developed by the staging account provider is generic but it should be recognized that one prepaid construct and one set of partnerships will not meet the requirements of all primary issuers. Consequently in order to meet the objectives of the staging account which includes easily and quickly deploying mobile accounts to the cardholders of a primary issuer the staging account provider may develop several staging account programs at least one of which can be utilized immediately by a primary issuer. Such staging account programs may represent several pre packaged solutions that meet the requirements of one or more primary issuers in a particular region. For example the staging account provider may initiate a MasterCard mobile prepaid program MMPP for deployment to a secure element of the mobile device that is denominated in the appropriate currency for the primary issuer s market and may have one or more user interfaces UI s and digital wallets for one or more handset ranges that have been set up and approved for deployment. In addition the staging account provider may have agreements with one or more secure element owners such as Mobile Network Operators MNOs to allow the staging account to be loaded into their universal integrated circuit cards UICCs or subscriber identity module cards SIM cards and or with one or more mobile device handset providers to allow the staging account to be loaded into an embedded secure element SE resident within the mobile device. The staging account provider will have also integrated with all parties necessary for example Trusted Service Managers TSMs and the like to allow the staging account to be provisioned to a consumer s mobile device and have a range of supporting services including documentation available to the primary issuer that covers top ups funding of the mobile account customer support and enrollment. The staging account provider may also have a draft agreement available for consideration by primary issuers that includes commercial terms for engaging the staging account provider and for utilizing an appropriate staging account program. Although a staging account provider may initially go to market with only one staging account program it is contemplated that over time the staging account provider will develop multiple staging account programs for consideration by primary issuers and will have the ability to develop bespoke or customized programs when and where the business opportunity justifies it.

In order to meet some primary issuer requirements for example an existing staging account program may need to be extended to add an additional secure element SE owner within an existing market or a new staging account program may need to be created where a program has not already been created for the market required. This may result in additional costs and setup time but the staging account provider is expected to be able to deliver in a cost effective and timely manner by using their experience and existing market relationships.

The staging account provider may also offer one or more methods to provision the secure element of a mobile device. Although over the air OTA provisioning is ideal for mass deployment opportunities it can be a complex and expensive provisioning option to set up. Thus in the case of the primary issuer intending a small mobile staging account trial or limited issuance other options may be more cost effective. For example if a handset and UICC is being issued to the cardholder on sign up to the mobile service then pre configuration of the mobile device for a staging account prior to dispatch may be an option. In cases where the cardholder already has a mobile handset and UICC that includes the SE re issuance of a replacement UICC to the cardholder may be an option. Thus in some embodiments it is the responsibility of the staging account provider to identify and offer provisioning options that are applicable for the actual circumstances of each target market i.e. country .

The mobile device may include a conventional housing indicated by dashed line that contains and or supports the other components of the mobile device . The mobile device further includes conventional control circuitry for controlling over all operation of the mobile device . Preferably the control circuitry is suitably programmed to allow the mobile device to engage in data communications and or text messaging with other devices and to allow for interaction with web pages accessed via browser software which is not separately shown. Other components of the mobile device which are in communication with and or controlled by the control circuitry include a one or more memory devices e.g. program and working memory and which may include one or more secure portions or secure elements and the like b a conventional SIM subscriber identification module card c a conventional keypad or touch screen for receiving user input and d a conventional display or again touch screen for displaying output information to the user.

The mobile device also includes conventional receive transmit circuitry that is also in communication with and or controlled by the control circuitry . The receive transmit circuitry is coupled to an antenna and provides the communication channel s by which the mobile device communicates via the mobile network not shown . The mobile device further includes a conventional microphone coupled to the receive transmit circuitry . Of course the microphone is for receiving voice input from the user. In addition a loudspeaker is included to provide sound output to the user and is coupled to the receive transmit circuitry .

The mobile device may also include an integrated circuit IC or chipset of the kind embedded in contactless payment cards. For example the IC is connected to an antenna and once the mobile device has been personalized as described below operates so as to interact with an RFID NFC proximity reader of a POS terminal to provide a payment card account number for a purchase transaction at the POS terminal. For example the IC may be designed and or programmed to operate in accordance with the above mentioned PayPass standard.

The staging account provider computer includes a number of interfaces to facilitate the transfer of data to operate the staging account. For example some embodiments require the staging account provider computer to include a BANKNET interface to process all staging account transactions that are routed from an acquirer financial institution to the staging account provider. This is a standard issuer processor function and thus is subject to pre defined specifications rules and certifications such as those defined for MasterCard Service Provider Third Party Processors MSP TPP and accordingly the staging account service does not impose any additional requirements on this interface. In addition the staging account provider computer must include a provisioning service interface for each trusted service manager TSM and or trusted service provider TSP that the staging account provider utilizes to provision the staging account onto a mobile device such as a cell phone and a primary issuer interface for each primary issuer financial institution that utilizes the staging account service of that staging account service provider .

In some embodiments the provisioning service interface between the staging account provider computer and the provisioning service computer is operated in accordance with the MasterCard Mobile Provisioning Framework MMPF which is subject to an independent detailed specification and is outside the scope of this disclosure. It should be understood however that implementations require the staging account provider and the provisioning service to support trials and or low volume deployments in addition to over the air OTA provisioning local issuance and re issuance of the UICC or SIM card . In particular when a consumer purchases a handset and or mobile device package he or she may have the staging account provisioned directly by the retailer. In some implementations such provisioning may be conducted using an OTA process which may be cost effective in addition to providing an improved customer experience. In some embodiments the retailer instigates and oversees the provisioning of the UICC or the embedded secure element SE including downloading the user interface UI and digital wallet into the handset. In some implementations the retailer receives sufficient training and therefore has experience with the process from undertaking it for previous customers so that any problems that may occur can be easily rectified. In some other embodiments instead of using an OTA process or local issuance to provision the mobile staging account a new UICC or SIM card is sent to the consumer to replace their existing UICC or SIM card . Such an UICC is fully provisioned in the mobile network operator s MNO s personalization bureau and the MNO provides instructions for the cardholder regarding how to download a UI and a digital wallet application onto their handset a relatively straightforward process .

The staging account provider also includes a plurality of primary issuer interfaces that correspond to each primary issuer financial institution that utilizes the staging account services. The primary account interface supports primary issuer requests to issue a new staging account to access account information and for changing the account configuration where appropriate to access account activity for customer statements regulatory reporting and benefit accruals and to provide account top ups. Thus in some embodiments a secure and authenticated channel is set up between the staging account provider and each primary issuer that utilizes the services of the staging account provider. The use of a secure channel is the responsibility of each primary issuer and thus a primary issuer implements any controls necessary to prevent unauthorized use of the services within their own organization. In some embodiments the staging account provider also provides a white label web portal for use by cardholders of a particular primary issuer and such a web portal may also be provided through a secure channel to the primary issuer. The primary issuer is thus responsible for authenticating the cardholders before allowing them access to the web portal.

With regard to staging account top ups the interface between the staging account provider and the primary issuer may be implemented in any of a number of ways. For example for trials and smaller deployments a normal payment transaction can be submitted through a payment network such as BankNet to the primary issuer to authorize and settle funds. In order to ensure a good cardholder experience a primary issuer configures its authorization system to recognize the staging account provider as a trusted merchant and to not apply quasi cash or cash advance fees to the top up transactions. With regard to larger deployments where transactional costs must be minimized the staging account provider and primary issuer in some embodiments implement a proprietary connection to allow top up transactions to be processed more cost effectively. Such a proprietary connection beneficially results in no interchange passing between the staging account provider and the primary issuer and the costs and revenue generated can be subject to conditions defined in the business services agreement. In addition in such cases MasterCard BankNet charges will not be due because the transactions are not routed through the BankNet payment network. However it should be noted that implementation of a proprietary connection will involve additional set up and configuration costs for both the primary issuer and the staging account Provider.

The staging account provider also enters into commercial agreements with partners in order to deliver the staging account service. In particular the staging account provider and the User Interface UI provider must have an agreement that defines the terms and the conditions under which a user interface and the digital wallet may be issued and used by the primary issuer s cardholders. The staging account provider and the primary issuer must also have a commercial agreement regarding items such as the fees to be charged by the staging account provider to the primary issuer to set up and maintain the staging accounts for their customers. In addition the staging account provider has commercial agreements with one or more pre paid financial institutions or bank identification number BIN sponsors who issue the pre paid accounts that are companion accounts to those issued to the consumer but which are utilized as the consumer s mobile device account. Moreover the staging account provider has commercial agreements with one or more provisioning service vendors so that the staging accounts can be deployed to mobile handsets of consumers. These agreements may be complex as multiple parties and or organizations may be involved such as handset providers UICC providers and eligibility check service providers . Also in some embodiments the staging account provider needs to have a commercial agreement with one or more mobile network operators MNOs so that access can be obtained to a secure element SE of the consumer s mobile devices.

It should be recognized that utilizing a prepaid staging account and a staging account provider as described herein may introduce additional expense per transaction for a primary issuer. In some cases the additional expense may be covered by the interchange fees earned from transactions undertaken with a mobile device yielding a small profitable margin however in some cases the interchange fees earned may be insufficient to cover all costs and the primary issuer may be expected to cover such costs. Therefore such a configuration or system may not be commercially viable or sustainable for larger mobile device payments deployments. But due to the lower set up costs such a configuration or system is viable and or cost effective for smaller programs for example for issuers who want to carry out a mobile payments pilot before deploying large scale mobile solutions try before you buy . In addition small to medium size banks looking for a cost effective mobile payments deployment with minimal effort or upfront investment costs may find it attractive to utilize the systems and or processes described herein. In addition a primary issuer may market the mobile account as a Cardholder Benefit which the primary issuer uses to enhance the loyalty of existing cardholders or as a marketing tool to win new cardholders. In some cases the primary issuer may be able to apply an additional charge to the cardholder for the mobile account service to cover all costs for example by charging an annual fee or a monthly fee or a per transaction fee or some combination thereof.

The staging account provider computer system may be conventional in its hardware aspects but may be controlled by software to cause it to operate in accordance with the processes described herein. For example the staging account provider computer system may be constituted by conventional server computer hardware.

The staging account provider computer system may include a computer processor operatively coupled to a communication device an input device an output device and a storage device .

The computer processor may include one or more conventional processors such as those manufactured by Intel Corporation and or the AMD Company. Processor operates to execute processor executable steps contained in program instructions described herein so as to control the staging account provider computer system to provide desired functionality.

Communication device may be used to facilitate communication with for example other devices such as computers or computer systems and shown in . For example communication device may comprise numerous communication ports not separately shown to allow the staging account provider computer system to provide data and or services simultaneously to numerous client computers.

Input device may comprise one or more of any type of peripheral device typically used to input data into a computer. For example the input device may include a touchscreen a keyboard and or a mouse. Similarly output device may include one or more peripheral devices typically used to obtain data from a computer. For example the output device may include for example a display screen and or a printer.

Storage device may comprise any appropriate information storage device including volatile and or non volatile types of memory. For example the storage device may include combinations of magnetic storage devices e.g. magnetic tape and hard disk drives optical storage devices such as CDs and or DVDs and or semiconductor memory devices such as Random Access Memory RAM devices and Read Only Memory ROM devices as well as flash memory. Any one or more of such information storage devices may be considered to be a non transitory computer readable storage medium or a computer readable medium.

Storage device stores one or more programs or program modules for controlling processor . The programs comprise program instructions which may be referred to as processor executable instructions or computer readable program code means that contain processor executable process steps of staging account provider computer system including in some cases process steps that constitute processes provided in accordance with aspects and or principles of one or more embodiments described herein. The storage device may also store one or more databases that include data that may be required and or utilized for one or more processes describe herein.

The storage device stores supporting services programs for the purpose of providing primary issuer computers with access to services that assist in the deployment and management of mobile accounts. In some implementations the services offered include enrollment services set up services customer services and reporting services. In addition in some embodiments the staging account provider may provide to the primary issuer value added services that may be branded by the primary issuer for direct use by their customers or cardholders. Such value added services may include a mobile application for the cardholder to directly manage their staging account. For example a Web portal and or a call center or IVR may be available for the cardholder to directly manage their staging account. In addition a remote message system SMS or email may be provided to inform cardholders of transactions balance and top up events on the staging account.

In some embodiments the supporting services programs include an enrollment application programming interface API for direct integration with the primary issuer computer system s . But enrollment of cardholders may instead or additionally be implemented as a web portal for use directly by primary issuer staff for use for example in smaller pilots and trials where the primary issuer wishes to avoid the cost of a full system integration. In any case the enrollment service is implemented via an encrypted and authenticated link such that only authorized primary issuer systems or staff can access it.

The purpose of providing enrollment functionality is to capture all information required in order to set up a new staging account for a cardholder of a primary issuer wherein the primary issuer has already requested such services from a staging account provider. The information that must be captured includes cardholder details such as the name address date of birth and contact information of the cardholder mobile device details such as the phone number mobile network operator MNO the brand model and or type of mobile handset primary account details such as the card account number the expiration date of the card account the CVC2 number and the like and a passcode which is a secret passcode that is shared with the cardholder and used to validate that the phone is in possession of the cardholder at the time of provisioning. In addition know your customer KYC data which may be dependent on country regulations may be captured but in some cases may not be required and data concerning certain options where choices are available the data indicates which options have been selected .

Under a business agreement between the staging account provider and the primary issuer any KYC data that must be supplied will be set forth. However in some cases regulatory requirements may not require a primary issue to actually pass KYC data to a staging account provider but there may be a requirement to formally acknowledge that KYC data has been collected. Thus in some embodiments upon submission of a request to issue a new account the data provided is checked where possible to ensure that it is complete and correctly formatted and an acknowledgement message or error message is provided. Since a mobile device provisioning process takes some time in some embodiments the primary issuer tracks the status of the request including the data provided through a customer services API and or a Web portal. As part of the provisioning service the staging account provider or TSM transmits a number of messages to the consumer via SMS or other suitable messaging service and the content and frequency of such messages is agreed upon between both parties the staging account provider and the primary issuer and included within the business services agreement.

The staging account provider is responsible for securing the bank identification number BIN range necessary for example via a BIN sponsor for issuance of the staging accounts. Within this BIN range the staging account provider allocates and generates staging account PAN numbers for the cardholders mobile device accounts and populates a mapping database to ensure that there is a one to one 1 to 1 correspondence for all staging accounts issued to the appropriate primary issuer and the cardholders corresponding debit card account or credit card account for example. The mapping to the appropriate primary issuer is critical because to achieve economies of scale the staging account program can be shared by many primary issuers. It is important that the contractual terms program options and appropriate branding are correctly applied to all aspects of the staging account services provided for each staging account issued based on the program agreed upon between the staging account provider and each individual primary issuer. The fact that for many primary issuers the staging or mobile account service will be delivered using a shared program must be effectively invisible to their cardholders.

The staging account provider is responsible for selecting the data preparation service DPS and or the trusted service manager TSM vendors the provisioning service that will carry out mobile provisioning on their behalf. Such entities may be selected based on existing relationships and the type s of mobile devices that need to be provisioned. For example MasterCard International Inc. requirements include a provision that requires all such selected partners to be accredited by MasterCard . Accordingly the staging account provider is responsible for defining the technical requirements business agreements and interfaces with all the partners selected and managing the end to end provisioning process on behalf of the primary issuer. As part of the provisioning process a User Interface UI must be downloaded to each mobile device. The UI must be compatible with the mobile device provide the functionality required and be branded as required by the primary issuer. For example the staging account provider may offer a primary issuer a UI built using the MasterCard UI software development kit SDK . The staging account provider also configures and customizes the UI in accordance with the requirements of the primary issuer in accordance with the business services agreement and may be required to complete user acceptance testing UAT prior to rollout of the mobile accounts service with the primary issuer and all partners involved to ensure that that the provisioning processes works as required by the primary issuer.

In some embodiments as part of the supporting services provided by the staging account provider the primary issuer can access operational and status information for a staging account set up on their behalf and can search for a particular mobile account staging account based on one or more of the cardholder s name the cardholders mobile telephone number and or the primary account number the funding account . In some implementations the staging account provider need not validate that the primary issuer is accessing the correct account but for the purposes of providing audit functionality transaction logging may be implemented. In addition in some embodiments the primary issuer can utilize the API or the Web portal to view and or to update where applicable the status of the mobile account or staging account for example status indications may include Open Suspended Reported Lost Stolen or Closed status of the provisioning process any information regarding the SIM UI or handset currently in use the account balance plus ability to undertake a top up the transaction history including failed authorizations and current account funding options if any .

The transaction history for a staging account is made available by the staging account provider to the primary issuer as part of the supporting services so that the primary issuer can generate a cardholder statement for transmitting to the cardholder. But in some embodiments other reports are provided to assist the primary issuer in managing the staging accounts being used by their cardholders. Such reports may be available upon request for a given period of time and may include one or more of a report of high usage accounts a report of dormant accounts a report of accounts where an authorization has been declined a report of accounts where a top up has not been completed successfully a report on all potentially fraudulent activity detected a stator report required by law see below and or a benefit accruals report see below .

In some jurisdictions a primary issuer is responsible for compliance with reporting requirements issued by for example a financial sector regulator in one or more of the territories in which the primary issuer operates. In order to satisfy such requirements the staging account provider provides any such statutory reporting that is necessary. As part of the staging account construct cardholder benefits available on the primary account card the funding account may be transferred at the discretion of the primary issuer to one or more transactions undertaken by the cardholder using their mobile account their staging account . To facilitate such functionality benefit accruals reporting may be agreed upon between the staging account provider and the primary issuer for example as part of the business services agreement. Thus in some implementations the staging account provider is required to separately report transactions or transactions values and or volumes on which the cardholder has earned a benefit e.g. loyalty points for example as a benefits report. The staging account provider thus must have the flexibility to generate such benefits reports however the content and frequency of such benefit reports is subject to negotiation between the staging account provider and the primary issuer.

In addition in some embodiments as part of the supporting services provided by the staging account provider value added services can be provided that provide the cardholder with functionality directly from the staging account provider instead of from the primary issuer . Such value added or white label services minimizes the effort and expense of the primary issuer to develop the functionality for such services to their cardholders themselves. However a key requirement for such white label services is that they are branded by the primary issuer so that the cardholder is unaware of the fact that the service is actually being provided by a third party the staging account provider instead of being provided by the primary issuer.

Referring again to the storage device also stores top up services programs that provide top up options to cardholders according to rules provided by the primary issuer. In particular the primary issuer determines what top up options are available for their cardholders from options provided by the staging account provider . The options selected by the primary issuer can broadly depend on how the mobile payments solution is marketed to cardholders and if the primary issuer permits their cardholders to manage their mobile account balance. For example the staging account provider may allow automatic top up so that when the staging account balance the mobile account balance falls below a pre determined value the staging account is automatically topped up to a pre determined balance. The pre determined levels can be set by the primary issuer based on for example the financial standing of the cardholder and or that cardholder s usage profile.

The staging account provider may also offer semi automatic top up which is similar to automatic top up but requires the consent of the cardholder typically obtained via a user interface UI on the mobile device before the actual top up is undertaken.

The staging account provider may also offer manual top up. For example the cardholder may be provided with a low balance warning when their balance falls below a pre determined value and it is then the responsibility of the cardholder to request typically via the UI on the mobile device a top up for that staging account and to specify the amount of money that should be topped up.

In situations in which the cardholder had a transaction declined because its value is greater than the current available balance and or potentially the balance that would normally be achieved following an automatic or semi automatic top up the staging account provider may offer subject to primary issuer approval the cardholder the ability to top up the staging account by an amount sufficient to allow the transaction to be undertaken on a second attempt. The staging account provider may also provide functionality for a cardholder to set daily or weekly limits to the amount of funds that can be automatically topped up without the cardholder directly communicating with the primary issuer s customer services as an added security feature. In addition the staging account provider may provide functionality to limit the value of the maximum transaction or top up that can be undertaken.

In some embodiments when the prepaid staging account the mobile account is reloaded or topped up with value for example after an automatic top up has been performed to load value the primary issuer may refer to such a transaction on the cardholder s primary account statement as Transfer to Mobile Account or Transfer to Mobile Wallet or the like. In some embodiments when a transaction using the prepaid staging account is declined because of insufficient funds in the prepaid staging account a display on the cardholder s mobile device may be provided which suggests one or more options to the cardholder based on rules established by the funding account issuer . For example the options for the cardholder may include 1 asking the cardholder if he or she wishes to transfer additional funds into the mobile account 2 prompting the cardholder to attempt the transaction again in the meantime the system may automatically perform a top up to ensure that sufficient funds will be available to cover the transaction or 3 prompting the cardholder to use their primary funding account payment card instead of using the mobile device. Those skilled in the art appreciate that other options may be available and may be presented to the cardholder on the mobile device display as well.

The storage device also stores transaction processing services programs because the staging account is a prepaid account that is configured and operated in accordance with business requirements. In some embodiments transaction processing is undertaken in accordance with MasterCard International Incorporated prepaid rules and requirements.

Referring again to the storage device stores staging account program management programs that enable the staging account provider to manage the staging accounts for cardholders. However the staging account provider is not responsible for marketing the program or for managing cardholder relationships. These responsibilities instead are undertaken by the primary issuer and the responsibility for some types of fraud is also passed to the primary issuer wherein the fraud responsibilities are set forth in a business services agreement between the primary issuer and the staging account provider . However in some embodiments legal liability still resides with the staging account provider and thus the staging account provider must manage the balance of all accounts and monitor for any fraud that may occur.

Fraud represents a cost to all payment account programs and is normally built into account charges. Thus in order to minimize the risk of fraud restrictions are imposed on usage of a staging account so as to limit the opportunity for fraud to occur and thus to result in reducing the cost of operating a staging account. In particular in some implementations the staging account provider authorizes only card present or chip transactions wherein the cardholder must physically tap or wave his or her mobile device near a reader device such as an NFC reader . Card not present transactions such as mail order internet and or recurring payment transactions are not permitted through a staging account. Instead if the cardholder wishes to engage in a card not present transaction then he or she must use their primary account if permitted for such transactions That is the cardholder must utilize the PAN of his or her primary account instead of the mobile account PAN . Another restriction that may be applied is that the staging account shall only be funded from a previously nominated account held with the primary issuer such that cash loading and or funding from other accounts is not be permitted.

Since the staging account provides an existing credit or debit cardholder with a companion account on a mobile device the staging account provider does not have the ability to select or validate the cardholders who receive mobile accounts instead this is determined by the primary issuer . For this reason and due to account limitations imposed under the business services agreement the responsibility for some types of fraud are with the primary issuer. For example the primary issuer is responsible for any fraud that occurs due to a lost or stolen payment card or mobile device a fraudulent credit or debit account application or an account takeover. In addition the primary issuer is responsible for a cardholder bust out fraud the term bust out refers to a hybrid credit and fraud problem that is also known as sleeper fraud wherein a consumer applies for and uses credit often under his or her own identity with the intent of maxing out all available credit and then eventually disappearing without paying his or her bill .

Lost and or stolen mobile device scenarios are complex when more than one payment device is issued on an account. If one device is lost or stolen consideration must be given to how that will impact the use of other devices on the same account. For example when a mobile device that includes a payment application funded by a staging account is lost or stolen but the cardholder still retains his or her payment card then the mobile device account the staging account is suspended pending re issuance. Likewise in the case where both the cardholder s payment card and mobile device including a payment application funded by a staging account is lost or stolen then the mobile device account the staging account is suspended pending re issuance the primary issuer may also suspend the primary account . In the case where the cardholder s payment card is lost or stolen but the cardholder still retains his or her mobile device then the mobile device may not be permitted to be topped up. In such a case the primary issuer may link the staging account to a new funding source.

Furthermore unlike a payment card there are a number of valid reasons why a cardholder may give his or her mobile device to a family member friend or third party for use for example to make a phone call or in the case of a smart phone to check a fact by using a web browser . Thus the staging account provider must be capable of supporting a temporary account suspension request by a cardholder via the primary issuer wherein the staging account provider functions to prevent the authorization of any transactions that may be attempted while the temporary account suspension is in effect. When the cardholder removes the temporary account suspension then the staging account can be used in the normal fashion.

The storage device may also store one or more databases for use by the staging account provider processor to manage accounts and or provide services. For example a primary issuer agreements database may include terms and conditions that govern the engagement of the staging account provider by each primary issuer for issuing mobile accounts staging accounts on behalf of the primary issuers to existing cardholders. In some embodiments in exchange for providing the services the staging account provider receives prepaid interchange revenue from the acquirer for each staging account transaction process. For operating the service the staging account provider charges a fee to each primary issuer which may depend on specific details of each agreement reached which may depend on the amount of cardholders to be serviced and which may or may not exceed interchange revenue. Therefore in some cases part of the interchange revenue may still be passed onto the primary issuer after staging account provider fees are deducted but in other cases the primary issuer may need to pay fees in addition to the revenue collected by the staging account provider from the prepaid interchange revenue. Accordingly it should be understood that in some scenarios the interchange revenue to the primary issuer for providing staging accounts issued to their cardholders will be significantly reduced or effectively zero. Thus from the point of view of primary issuers the justification for utilizing a staging account may include considerations such as speed to market reduction in set up fees and little or no changes required to the primary issuers host systems and or cost effectiveness with regard to undertaking smaller mobile account deployments for cardholders.

It should be understood that the operational cost of the staging account provider service is influenced by the project scope and mobile account staging account issuance volumes. In addition the set up cost of the mobile account service can be influenced by whether or not the staging account provider already has a suitable Staging Account Program available and or if core relationships are already in place through their provisioning service partners.

As mentioned earlier the staging account provider and each primary issuer must have a commercial agreement in place that defines the terms and conditions of the services provided to the primary issuer by the staging account provider. For example the commercial agreement should include fees to be paid the method of deployment of the staging accounts plus how to update and or remove mobile accounts including service level agreements of the mobile account user interface UI and mobile wallet to cardholders. In addition the mobile network operators MNOs UICCs and handsets to which the mobile accounts are to be deployed must be specified. In addition technical support regarding the identification and resolution of any issues that occur when deploying an account to a mobile device information available to the primary issuer for customer support purposes regarding the progress of deployment of an account and the current status of a mobile handset and or UICC e.g. if the UICC Handset is lost stolen terminated or replaced and or whether post issuance management services are available should be specified. The primary issuer also needs to know the information required for the cardholder enrollment process and must specify the account funding options including the frequency and timing the top up amount and the top up mechanism such as automatic or manual . The agreement must include the reporting functionality or services that are required by the primary issuer from the staging account provider and the web portals or API s that are required by the primary issuer. In addition the primary issuer specifies the user interface UI and wallet design and the branding that should appear on the consumer s mobile device with regard to the staging account. Further the process for advising the cardholder of their mobile personal identification number PIN must be specified and there must be a sign off on exception transaction processing to include lost card and or lost mobile device scenarios chargebacks and or returns transaction declines due to insufficient funds and fraud liabilities.

The storage device depicted in may also include a user interface UI provider agreements database that includes terms and conditions that define the user interface and digital wallet that is provided to cardholders of each particular primary issuer. For example fees and commercial terms must be specified and a license agreement entered into that includes any restrictions imposed for example on particular countries and to what handsets the UI and the electronic or digital wallet may be deployed. The agreement must also contain information regarding the method of deployment and potential updates of the UI and the digital wallet to mobile devices of cardholders and must specify the entity that will host a web portal to support the download of the UI and digital wallet to the cardholders handset. Technical support issues such as the identification and resolution of any issues that occur with the UI when deployed to consumer mobile devices and development issues such as designing a new UI to support new handsets as the need arises for deployment to the new handsets must also be specified. In addition the commercial agreement should also cover how ongoing enhancements of the UI and the digital wallet are handled to address changes to mobile MMPP standards and specifications as they occur.

The storage device may include a Pre Paid financial institution agreements database that includes terms and conditions that govern the relationship between the staging account provider and each pre paid financial institution or BIN sponsor that provides staging accounts for use with mobile devices. The BIN sponsor is aware of the staging account construct and the fact that such staging accounts are being deployed to mobile handsets and not to cards. The roles and responsibilities that key stakeholders are undertaking should also be identified. For example the staging account provider undertakes issuer processing plus which means that any additional services necessary to deliver the staging account which traditionally may have been undertaken by a program manager for a GPR prepaid account are now handled by the staging account manager. In addition the primary issuer undertakes marketing of staging accounts cardholder selection and know your customer KYC rules which roles have typically been undertaken by a program manager in a GPR prepaid account.

In addition the commercial agreement between the BIN sponsor and the staging account provider also specifies the bin range to be utilized fees and commercial terms KYC liability and the duration of the agreement. KYC requirements differ by jurisdiction and thus specific requirements for any target territories should be well understood and specified by the BIN sponsor and or staging account provider before deploying any mobile accounts for the customers of the primary issuer.

Also shown in is a provisioning service agreements database that in some embodiments includes terms and conditions that govern the relationship between the staging account provider and each provisioning service vendor. As mentioned above the relationship between the staging account provider and the provisioning service vendors may be complex due to the number of organizations that may be involved in the deployment of accounts. But the staging account provider has a primary relationship with a service provider trusted service manager SP TSM who may then manage relationships with other parties as required to achieve deployment. The parties involved in deployment of the mobile account may include for example the UICC provider if the secure element SE is located in the UICC the handset provider if accounts are being deployed to an embedded SE the micro SD provider if the SE is hosted on a micro SD card the MMPP application provider the service provider trusted service manager SP TSM the secure element trusted service manager SE TSM the MNO the eligibility check service provider for example MasterCard International Incorporated and or the retailer if in store deployment is required .

In addition the service agreements database may include technical implementation and testing requirements to ensure that mobile accounts can be deployed. Such implementation and testing requirements are required for each staging account program offered to Primary Issuers.

The provisioning service vendor can either be a TSM or a TSP and thus an agreement with the staging account provider includes fees and commercial terms account profiles to be deployed a determination of the entity that is responsible for t the data preparation function the method of deployment plus update to mobile account and or removal of the mobile account including service level agreements of the account and how and when the UI and digital wallet is provided to cardholders. In addition items that may be included are technical support responsibility for identification and resolution of any issues that occur when deploying an account to a mobile device further development to support deployment to new handsets and or new UICC s as required how and when information is returned to the staging account provider regarding the progress of deployment of an account and the current status of a mobile handset and or the UICC e.g. if the UICC and or the mobile handset is lost stolen terminated or replaced . The agreement should also specify whether or not post issuance management services are available and the overall service the provisioning service provider is expected to provide.

In some embodiments the storage device may include a MNO agreements database that includes terms and conditions between the staging account provider and the MNO that permits the staging account provider to access the secure element SE of the mobile device. Such an agreement between the MNO and the staging account provider includes fees and commercial terms a license agreement which may include restrictions imposed regarding operation in some countries and to what handsets an account may be deployed the information returned to the staging account provider regarding the progress of deployment of an account and the current status of a mobile handset and or the UICC e.g. if the UICC and or mobile device or handset is lost stolen terminated or replaced . Such an agreement may also include the method of deployment plus how updates and or removal are handled including service level agreements of the account UI and digital wallet to cardholders spell out how technical support issues are handled for example the identification and resolution of any issues that occur when deploying an account to a mobile device and which entity holds or has access to the keys required to create an MMPP instance with the SE and personalize it with the staging account.

As mentioned earlier the primary issuer owns and manages the relationship with the cardholder and provides all funds that are loaded onto the cardholder s mobile account the staging account . The primary issuer also determines if cardholder benefits for example loyalty points and the like earned through use of the card account will be made available on the mobile account which may require the primary issuer to update their cardholder s benefits based on a report provided by the staging account provider for benefits accrued through the staging account. In some embodiments the primary issuer provides the staging account provider with visibility into cardholder benefits for each card in their staging account portfolio so that the staging account provider can generate any necessary reports for the primary issuer to reconcile benefits.

As also mentioned herein the primary issuer is typically responsible for the completion of Know Your Customer KYC requirements to achieve compliance with regulations and product rules present in the market. Thus the primary issuer completes this process in accordance with the business services agreement with the staging account provider and provides via an enrollment API for example all of the required customer information. Thus on receipt of a new request for enrollment the staging account provider validates that all required information is present and is in the correct format. The enrollment request is then be acknowledged or an error given if validation fails and the process of issuing a new mobile account begins. The primary issuer can then monitor progress via a customer services API provided by the staging account provider.

In some embodiments the cardholder is provided with direct access to their transaction history via a UI on their mobile device. However some markets have regulatory requirements that mandate that the cardholder be provided with a printed statement of transactions undertaken which may be implemented via a webpage that the cardholder can print . The primary issuer may use the staging account providers API s to retrieve transaction history information and include that directly in the cardholder s monthly statement. But if a given mobile device is utilized for multiple convenience purchases then the number of transactions listed may be very large with some cardholders may not appreciate. In addition the cost of such integration by the primary issuer may far exceed the perceived value especially if it is to support only a small number of accounts. Thus in some cases the primary issuer may only list the top ups requested of the staging account provider which may be described on the cardholder s statement using terms such as Transfer to mobile account . Such operation minimizes the changes required to the statement system but may not meet regulatory requirements in some jurisdictions. Thus the primary issuer may utilize a white label web portal provided by the staging account provider if this value added service is available to provide the cardholder with a separate statement of their transactions performed using their mobile device. Such information made available on the website may include the name of the merchant the purchase amount and the date and or time of the transaction. In cases wherein the primary issuer utilizes the staging account provider s web portal to provide data to cardholders the primary issuer and the staging account provider must agree to the branding of the web portal and how the cardholder is authenticated when accessing the web portal. But authentication and hosting of a connection to link the cardholder to the web portal from the primary issuers own website is the responsibility of the primary issuer.

In the event of a problem or question a cardholder will by default contact the customer service department of the primary issuer. Thus the primary issuer provides an appropriate level of training for their customer service staff so that such calls can be handled. A specialist team may be set up within the primary issuer s customer service operation to support cardholders that have mobile device accounts. However due to the complexities of mobile issuance it is likely that additional technical expertise will also be needed or processes available to allow escalation of unresolved issues to the staging account provider and or to other vendors involved in the delivery of the accounts to the cardholder s mobile device. The Primary Issuer s customer support systems may be connected with the staging account provider s API to access account and status information or the customer support staff is provided with access to the customers staging account information via a web portal. In addition the pre sales and or customer enrollment teams will also need to be provided with an appropriate level of training.

When funding a staging account the primary issuer may reduce the available to spend balance on the cardholder s primary account. Alternatively to simplify cardholder messaging the primary issuer may extend the cardholder s credit limit or overdraft facility where permitted by law to hide the initial transfer of funds. The primary issuer also determines which top up options are available to their cardholders e.g. automatic semi automatic and or manual top ups and communicate these choices to their cardholders. If choices are available the selected choice must be provided to the staging account provider during enrollment and processes put in place via the primary issuer s customer services team or website to enable the cardholder to change the selection if necessary.

Embodiments provide a number of advantages. For example embodiments of the present invention allow issuers to quickly and efficiently launch NFC device payment programs. Pursuant to some embodiments the prepaid staging account is a general purpose reloadable prepaid account that is configured to look like another issuer s product with that issuer s card image messaging and branding and that is reloaded or topped up from a pre determined credit or debit account operated by the primary issuer the issuer that issued the original payment account that the staging account appears as . The primary issuer benefits in that they do not need to support NFC programs such as PayPass chip transactions or Mobile PayPass . The staging account issuer the issuer that provides the prepaid staging account uses economies of scale to cover the development effort required to offer the service and may provide staging account services to a number of different primary issuers.

The above description and or the accompanying drawings are not meant to imply a fixed order or sequence of steps for any process referred to herein rather any process may be performed in any order that is practicable including but not limited to simultaneous performance of steps indicated as sequential.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with specific exemplary embodiments it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations apparent to those skilled in the art can be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

