---

title: Method and system for conference call scheduling via E-mail
abstract: A method and system for conference call scheduling using e-mail. The method and system can receive and parse an e-mail received from a conference moderator, containing scheduling and participant information and schedule a conference call with minimal further user intervention. In essence, the method and system can operate as a virtual administrative assistant to identify and collect telephone contact information for each of the proposed conference call participants, using a customizable hierarchy of internal and external sources of contact information. In this manner, the conference moderator does not need know telephone contact information for each conference call participant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08948363&OS=08948363&RS=08948363
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08948363
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130618
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 477 329 filed on May 22 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 394 408 filed on Feb. 27 2009 titled Method and System for Conference Call Scheduling Via E Mail now U.S. Pat. No. 8 204 197 the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present application relates to the field of collaboration tools specifically providing a method and system for conference call initiation using electronic mail.

Typically conference calls are connected through a conference bridge capable of servicing multiple calls simultaneously. Such calls are traditionally of the Meet Me type meaning that attendees call into the conference bridge and utilize a unique PIN number to access their call. This type of system though easy to set up is not always the most reliable. For instance all participants of the conference must remember to call into the conference system at the appointed time. An alternate type of conference call is the Get Me type where the conference system is adapted to call each of the participants at an appointed time. Setup of such calls however comes with drawbacks. The call moderator must know telephone contact information for each of the participants and must also perform a call setup procedure using a direct interface to the conference system. Moreover the contact numbers must generally be entered manually which can be a time consuming practice.

Business professionals have become more mobile this has highlighted a need for collaboration tools that operate seamlessly without need for user intervention. Although advances in collaboration tools have allowed a conference initiator to use programs such as Microsoft Office Outlook to schedule calls mobile professionals often do not have access to these programs while out of the office. With the proliferation of mobile communications devices such as the BlackBerry Palm Treo and Apple iPhone which allow for remote access to e mail it would be advantageous to allow such conference calls to be scheduled using an e mail.

In one aspect the present application provides a method of scheduling a conference call. The method comprises receiving and parsing a conference call request communication on a conference call server the communication comprising schedule information and identity information of at least one participant determining telephone contact information for each participant by querying a customizable hierarchy of sources of contact information and scheduling the conference call on the conference call server according to the schedule information in the communication.

In another aspect the present application provides a conference call scheduling system. The system comprises a conference call server configured to receive and parse a conference call request communication comprising schedule information and identity information of at least one participant to a conference call the conference call server being adapted to determine telephone contact information for each participant by querying a customizable hierarchy of sources of contact information and a conference bridge configured to connect the participants to the conference call according to the telephone contact information determined by the conference call server and the scheduling information of the communication.

In another embodiment another method of scheduling a conference call is disclosed. The method comprises receiving and parsing a conference call request communication on a conference call server the communication comprising schedule information and identity information of at least one participant determining telephone contact information for each participant by searching internal networked and Internet sources verifying the results of those searches with a moderator of the conference call and scheduling the conference call on the conference call server according to the schedule information in the communication.

In a further embodiment the present application provides a conference call scheduling system comprising a conference call server configured to receive and parse a conference call request communication comprising schedule information and identity information of at least one participant to a conference call the conference call server being adapted to determine telephone contact information for each participant by searching internal networked and Internet sources and verifying the results of those searches with a moderator of the conference call and a conference bridge configured to connect the participants to the conference call according to the telephone contact information determined by the conference call server and the scheduling information of the communication.

In yet another aspect the present application provides a conference call server comprising means for receiving and parsing a conference call request communication on a conference call server the communication comprising schedule information and identity information of at least one participant means for determining telephone contact information for each participant by querying a customizable hierarchy of sources of contact information and means for scheduling the conference call on the conference call server according to the schedule information in the communication.

In yet a further embodiment of the present application provides a conference call server comprising means for receiving and parsing a conference call request communication on a conference call server the communication comprising schedule information and identity information of at least one participant means for determining telephone contact information for each participant by searching internal networked and Internet sources and verifying the results of those searches with a moderator of the conference call and means for scheduling the conference call on the conference call server according to the schedule information in the communication.

Other aspects of the present application will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The present application relates to the control and management of communications. Although reference may be made to calls in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. It will also be appreciated that the systems and methods may not be limited to sessions and may be applicable to messaging based communications in some embodiments.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . Again although references are made below to calls or call centric features it will be appreciated that the architectures and systems depicted and described are applicable to session based communications in general and in some instances to messaging based communications.

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Reference is now made to which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of the system utilizing SIP will be described in further detail below.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . The conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

One of the features of the conference services application CSA is Get Me conference wherein the CSA arranges calls to conference participants at a scheduled time using contact information provided by the conference moderator. When scheduling a conference call the conference moderator has to create a participant list minimally the conference initiator can enter participant telephone contact information. The conference moderator can also enter a participant s email address in the case that the moderator does not know telephone contact information for the participant. CSA also supports traditional Meet Me type conference calls where participants call into the conference bridge and enter a unique PIN number for that call.

In accordance with an embodiment described herein CSA and conference call server also support scheduling of conference calls via e mail. The conference call server is adapted to parse and thereby read any e mails sent to it. show example communications between a user initiator and conference call server to set up such a call. shows a user e mail displayed on a mobile communications device to an e mail address of the conference call server . In the subject line the user can enter one of a plurality of commands such as CREATE MODIFY DELETE RESCHEDULE which correspond to creating modifying deleting and rescheduling a conference call. The e mail in shows the user of the mobile communication device creating a call for a specified date and time. In the body of the e mail the user can list identity information for the moderator and participants. The user initiator and moderation can optionally be the same person. In another embodiment the user sending the e mail to the conference server is automatically assigned as moderator of the conference call.

In the illustrated e mail it can be seen that the user has specified Jim Smith as a moderator . The user can also specify any number of participants . Participants can be entered by name see participant telephone number participant or other unique identifier e.g. participants . Participants entered by telephone number e.g. participant can be associated with a particular contact entry. For example when a telephone number matches a number on file for a particular contact entry the conference call server can identify that the particular contact has been invited to the conference call. The conference call server is also adapted to recognize descriptive attributes appended to entries for participants. For instance where a common name is used a user may append a company name to the participant name e.g. participant . A user may also specify which of a plurality of contact numbers associated with a contact entry should be used e.g. participant . In the user has specified that a work number be used for participant . In another embodiment the server can use the CC or To fields of an email to set up the participant list. Once the user has finished specifying parameters in e mail it is sent to the conference call server .

After the conference call server has scheduled the conference call in response to receipt of e mail and optionally after the moderator has received confirmation e mail the moderator can also modify by e mail the details of an already existing conference as shown in . In such a modification e mail the moderator can enter a plurality of commands such as ADD or DELETE to add or remove participants or MODIFY to change what telephone number a participant will be contacted on. shows the addition of one participant and the removal of another . As shown in conference call server can be adapted to send the moderator a confirmation e mail with the modified details of the scheduled call including when the call will be initiated and the modified list of participants

As will be described in more detail below the conference call server can be adapted to use a hierarchy of internal and external sources of information to locate a telephone contact number for call participants. shows an example of a contact confirmation e mail to moderator where text information regarding retrieval of information regarding a contact is communicated to moderator for its approval. The e mail can optionally include the source of the contact information such as a website retrieved via the Internet.

As shown in the conference call server is also adapted to reach out to scheduled call participants and collect telephone contact information via e mail when there is an e mail address on file. It should be appreciated that other communication mediums can also be used to contact a participant. shows an example of a contact confirmation e mail which is sent to moderator stating no telephone contact information could be located for a participant . The e mail can include text stating that an e mail address is on file for the participant and that there will be an attempt to contact the participant using that address . shows the e mail communication to address providing information about the scheduled call and asking for the participant to respond to the e mail. The subject line also states the purpose of the e mail e.g. the scheduled time of the conference call or the name of the moderator . shows an example response e mail to the conference call server e mail address with a participant s contact number . In one embodiment the conference call server will only accept a response from the participant s e mail address on file.

In one embodiment as shown in the conference call server can send a confirmation e mail to participants e.g. participant whose e mail address is on file. The e mail can include information regarding the call and can specify the telephone contact number on which the participant will be called. Optionally the participant can reply to the confirmation e mail to provide alternate telephone contact information for the call. In another embodiment the confirmation e mail can contain attachments sent to the conference call server by the user initiator in the initial scheduling e mail .

The e mail call scheduling process described above is now described in further detail with reference to methods A and B illustrated in and can be used to schedule Get Me or Meet Me type conference calls. In one embodiment the process A as shown in is executed by conference call server . In an initial step the conference call server receives an e mail from e.g. a moderator. The conference call server parses the e mail to determine the scope of the request. Next in step the conference call server is adapted to determine whether there will be sufficient resources e.g. telephone line or conference bridge capacity available to host the call requested in step . If the resources are unavailable the conference call server will notify the moderator step . In an alternate embodiment the conference call server can determine one or more alternate times when the moderator can schedule the call and alert the moderator of the alternatives by e mail or other means.

Once it is determined that resources are available for the call the conference call server is configured to identify telephone contact information for each participant identified in the request step . The method continues at step . In step the conference call server will attempt to resolve a telephone contact number for each participant using various sources including but not limited to 1 Contact information within the e mail chain between the conference call initiator and the conference attendees 2 a moderator s local contact list within e mail or address book clients such as Microsoft Office Outlook Lotus Notes or ACT 3 an enterprise s corporate directory such as Microsoft Active Directory LDAP 4 an enterprise s CRM ERP or other corporate applications systems such as Microsoft CRM Oracle CRM SAP Remedy PeopleSoft 5 a Global Address List GAL lookup to resolve contact information for attendees within the enterprise when an Enterprise Server such as that depicted in is integrated 6 hosted contact management systems such as Google Address book Yahoo MSN AOL and Plaxo or 7 through customized search protocols that make use of publicly available sources of contact information e.g. corporate websites Google the Yellow Pages . The conference call server can follow a customizable hierarchy e.g. local calendar application corporate directory internet search engine of contact sources to find locate and later confirm a participant s telephone contact information as described above .

In one embodiment sources on the same network as the conference call server are prioritized. For example in another embodiment users of conference call server can individually customize the hierarchy using a web interface to conference call server which can optionally include storage of which users are authorized to use the system as well as configuration preferences for those users. In a further embodiment the conference call server can be programmed to determine telephone contact information for each participant by searching internal networked and Internet sources and then verifying the results using e mail similar to those depicted in of those searches with the moderator of the conference call. After all participant contact information is identified in step the conference call is scheduled.

For Meet Me type conferences the conference call server can also use the contact number for a participant for additional or extra validation or authentication. Specifically if a participant is calling from within a verified corporate environment e.g. Desk phone extension number or if the calling number matches the contact number on file the conference call server can waive the need for the attendee to enter its PIN .

Referring now to a system running on an enterprise network such as that shown in is now described that is capable of executing the processes described above. Enterprise Network is preferably an internal network but can also include a connection to the Internet or WAN as depicted in for connection to external sources of contact information. Conference call server executes and manages process discussed above . Contact information can be retrieved from a customer relationship management CRM Server directory server and enterprise server . As also shown in present on enterprise network is a PBX IP PBX which can perform the function of a conference bridge when prompted by the conference call server .

It should be noted that the system described herein is also not restricted to traditional voice conference services and could be adapted for web collaboration or web enabled conferencing. In this manner the system could be adapted in a reverse fashion to the above described methods of locating telephone contact information to use IVR to reach out where a phone number is known to participants to confirm e mail addresses or web contact information. It should also be further understood that while e mail is a preferred method of communication with conference call server other two way communication mediums e.g. MMS SMS can be used as well.

Certain adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made. Therefore the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.

