---

title: Immune modulation using peptides and other compositions
abstract: The present invention generally relates to compositions and methods for topical or transdermal delivery for immune modulation. In some cases, the composition may include nitric oxide and/or peptides such as thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and/or GnRH (gonadotropin-releasing hormone). The nitric oxide and/or peptide may be present within a first phase comprising a lecithin, such as phosphatidylcholine. In certain embodiments, the lecithin is present in liposomes, micelles, or other structures containing nitric oxide, peptides, or both. The composition can take the form of a gel, a cream, a lotion, an ointment, a solution, a solid “stick,” etc., that can be rubbed or sprayed onto the skin. Other aspects of the present invention are generally directed to methods of making or using such compositions, methods of promoting such compositions, kits including such compositions, or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09393264&OS=09393264&RS=09393264
owner: Transdermal Biotechnology, Inc.
number: 09393264
owner_city: Meriden
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131204
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 800 952 filed Mar. 13 2013 entitled Immune Modulation Using Peptides and Other Compositions by Perricone. This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 402 filed Mar. 13 2013 entitled Systems and Methods for Delivery of Peptides by Perricone. Each of these is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to compositions and methods for topical or transdermal delivery for modulating the immune system in various conditions.

Topical drug delivery systems are known. These systems deliver drugs or other therapeutic agents or other desired substances topically or transdermally and may be designed to act locally at the point of application or to act systemically once entering the body s blood circulation. In these systems delivery may be achieved by techniques such as direct topical application of a substance or drug in the form of an ointment or the like or by adhesion of a patch with a reservoir or the like that holds the drug or other substance and releases it to the skin in a time controlled fashion.

Topical delivery systems for substances such as peptides drugs pain relieving compounds vitamins and skin improving compounds have been in use for a number of years. Transdermal delivery systems using creams have been developed for use with analgesics and skin refining compounds. However these delivery systems do not work effectively for all compounds. Additionally topical or transdermal delivery systems for modulating the immune system are currently lacking.

The present invention generally relates to compositions and methods for transdermal delivery including immune modulation and or treatment of autoimmune diseases. The subject matter of the present invention involves in some cases interrelated products alternative solutions to a particular problem and or a plurality of different uses of one or more systems and or articles.

In one aspect the present invention is generally directed to a method comprising an act of administering to the skin of a subject to modulate the immune system of the subject a composition comprising an effective amount of a peptide and nitric oxide to modulate the immune system and a carrier having a phosphatidylcholine component entrapping the nitric oxide.

The method in another aspect is generally directed to a method comprising contacting the skin of a subject to modulate the immune system of the subject with a composition comprising an emulsion comprising a first phase comprising a peptide nitric oxide and lecithin and a second phase comprising an emulsifier. In one set of embodiments the lecithin is present at least about 0.25 by weight of the composition. In some instances the first phase comprises no more than about 250 ppm of water by weight of the composition.

In yet another aspect the method comprises administering to the skin of a subject to modulate the immune system of the subject a composition comprising an effective amount of gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH and nitric oxide to modulate the immune system and a carrier having a phosphatidylcholine component entrapping the nitric oxide.

In still another aspect the method comprises contacting the skin of a subject to modulate the immune system of the subject with a composition comprising an emulsion comprising a first phase comprising gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH nitric oxide and lecithin and a second phase comprising an emulsifier wherein the lecithin is present at least about 0.25 by weight of the composition and wherein the first phase comprises no more than about 250 ppm of water by weight of the composition.

The method in another aspect includes an act of administering topically to the skin of a subject a composition comprising an effective amount of gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH to module the immune system of the subject.

According to yet another aspect the method includes an act of administering topically to the skin of a subject a composition comprising an effective amount of thyrotropin releasing hormone TRH to modulate the immune system of the subject.

In another aspect the present invention encompasses methods of making one or more of the embodiments described herein for example a composition comprising nitric oxide. In still another aspect the present invention encompasses methods of using one or more of the embodiments described herein for example a composition comprising nitric oxide.

Other advantages and novel features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of various non limiting embodiments of the invention. In cases where the present specification and a document incorporated by reference include conflicting and or inconsistent disclosure the present specification shall control. If two or more documents incorporated by reference include conflicting and or inconsistent disclosure with respect to each other then the document having the later effective date shall control.

The present invention generally relates to compositions and methods for topical or transdermal delivery for immune modulation. In some cases the composition may include nitric oxide and or peptides such as thyrotropin releasing hormone TRH and or GnRH gonadotropin releasing hormone . The nitric oxide and or peptide may be present within a first phase comprising a lecithin such as phosphatidylcholine. In certain embodiments the lecithin is present in liposomes micelles or other structures containing nitric oxide peptides or both. The composition can take the form of a gel a cream a lotion an ointment a solution a solid stick etc. that can be rubbed or sprayed onto the skin. Other aspects of the present invention are generally directed to methods of making or using such compositions methods of promoting such compositions kits including such compositions or the like.

According to one aspect of the present invention a composition as described herein is used to treat various immunological conditions such as those described herein. To treat a disorder means to reduce or eliminate a sign or symptom of the disorder to stabilize the disorder and or to reduce or slow further progression of the disorder. Thus in one set of embodiments the application of nitric oxide and or peptide e.g. in a nitric oxide and or peptide matrix to the skin of a subject suffering from immunological conditions such as those described herein may result in clinical improvement. In some cases the delivery of nitric oxide and or peptides to the skin e.g. to the epidermis and or dermis may be achieved at a controlled rate and or concentration. Without wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that nitric oxide may increase vasodilation and or promote beneficial neural signaling.

According to another aspect peptides are provided which are useful as therapeutic agents e.g. for immune modulation and or treatment of autoimmune disease e.g. as described herein. In some aspects compositions comprising peptides provided herein are effective for immune modulation and or treatment of autoimmune disease alone or in combination e.g. in a common composition with nitric oxide. In some cases the peptide may include two or more amino acids linked by the carboxyl group of one amino acid to the amino group of another e.g. a peptide linkage to form an amino acid sequence. It is contemplated that peptides may be purified and or isolated from natural sources or prepared by recombinant or synthetic methods. Amino acid sequences may be encoded by naturally or non naturally occurring nucleic acid sequences or synthesized by recombinant nucleic acid sequences or artificially synthesized. A peptide may be a linear peptide or a cyclopeptide e.g. cyclic including bicyclic. In some cases a peptide may be interchangeably referred to as a therapeutic peptide. In some cases the peptide is a pseudo peptide or a peptidomimetic which are compounds designed to functionally mimic a peptide. Non limiting examples of peptides include thyrotropin releasing hormone TRH melanocyte stimulating hormone MSH or gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH .

In some embodiments compositions comprising nitric oxide and peptides e.g. those described herein may comprise one or more peptides which work synergistically for immune modulation and or treatment of autoimmune disease. For example a composition may comprise one or more of the following TRH GnRH MSH thymosin 4 KPV or any combination of these and or other peptides.

In certain embodiments the composition comprises nitric oxide and the peptide thyrotropin releasing hormone TRH or an analog thereof. Non limiting examples of TRH or TRH analogs contemplated by the present disclosure include protirelin Thyrel TRH Relafect TRH taltirelin Ceredist montirelin as well as salts and analogs of any of the foregoing. Without wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that TRH stimulates thyroid stimulating hormone TSH and other thyroid hormones and prolactin PRL and both TSH and PRL have robust immunomodulatory properties. Because of TRH s effects on the immune system it is believed that compositions comprising TRH e.g. those described herein may be effective for immune modulation and or treatment of autoimmune disease e.g. by stimulating the release of TSH and PRL.

Without wishing to be bound by any theory it is also believed that TRH is involved in energy metabolism. TRH may also be involved in mitochondrial activity and metabolic capacity. For example the application of TRH to the skin e.g. using compositions as discussed herein may be used to modulate the immune system. This may be achieved for instance by improving the function of mitochondria. Improvement in mitochondria function can be determined for example by analysis of genes within the mitochondria e.g. by synthesis of mitochondrial DNA the number or density of mitochondria in cells the amount of oxygen consumption the activation of mitochondrial genes within cells e.g. respiratory genes or the like. As mentioned TRH can be readily obtained from commercial sources. As is known by those of ordinary skill in the art TRH has the structure pyroGlu His Pro NHor 

In another set of embodiments the composition comprises nitric oxide and or gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH or an analog thereof. The composition may also comprise other peptides such as MSH or TRH or any other peptide described herein in some embodiments. GnRH is also known as also known as luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH or luliberin. As is known to those of ordinary skill in the art GnRH has the structure pyroGlu His Trp Ser Tyr Gly Leu Arg Pro Gly NH SEQ ID NO 1 and GnRH and its analogs can be readily obtained from commercial sources. Non limiting examples of GnRH or GnRH analogs include gonadorelin hydrochloride Factrel gonadorelin diacetate tetrahydrate Cystorelin leuprolide leuprolide acetate deslorelin as well as salts and analogs of any of the foregoing.

GnRH is a trophic peptide hormone that has multiple effects including release of follicle stimulating hormone FSH and luteinizing hormone LH from the anterior pituitary. It is typically produced and released endogenously from neurons within the hypothalamus. Without wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that GnRH has effects on the immune system and thus could be used to modulate the immune system in a subject. For example GnRH may modulate the immune system by at least partially suppressing NF kappa B activity and or IKK beta activity. GnRH also may be produced locally by immune cells and thereby alter the autocrine pathway. GnRH may also have an effect on mitochondrial activity in some cells for example increasing GnRH exposure may include the number of mitochondria in cells and or the activity level of the mitochondria.

Accordingly without wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that the application of GnRH e.g. within a composition as discussed herein may be used to modulate the immune system in a subject. For example a composition as discussed herein may be applied to the skin of a subject e.g. to suppress certain immune responses. In some cases the subject may be one that has or is at risk of an autoimmune disease as discussed herein. As another example a composition as discussed herein may be applied to prevent or treat excessive inflammation in a subject. In some cases one or more than one of these effects may be present. Additionally in some cases a composition as discussed herein may also include NO e.g. along with a carrier having a phosphatidylcholine component entrapping the nitric oxide as discussed herein. However as discussed herein in some cases the composition does not necessarily include NO.

In addition in some embodiments the composition may include both GnRH and TRH. Without wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that the combination of GnRH and TRH may have surprising and synergistic effects in some cases. For example both TRH and GnRH have effects on mitochondrial and metabolic activity within the body and stimulation of mitochondria by both TRH and GnRH may result in dramatic increases in the number of mitochondria in cells and or the activity level of the mitochondria compared to only TRH or only GnRH. In addition TRH and GnRH may act on different systems within the body for example by stimulating different portions of the immune system e.g. the autocrine and or paracrine systems. For instance prolactin can suppress GnRH production while TRH stimulates prolactin thus supplying both TRH and GnRH can in some embodiments offset the effects of prolactin production on the immune system. In addition in some embodiments the composition may further include nitric oxide and or other peptides e.g. as discussed herein.

In certain embodiments the composition comprises nitric oxide and or the peptide melanocyte stimulating hormone MSH e.g. MSH or analogs thereof. In some aspects the MSH used in a composition comprising MSH is derived from a pro opiomelanocortin POMC precursor polypeptide. In some aspects the MSH or MSH analog used in a composition comprising MSH is synthesized. Non limiting examples of MSH or MSH analogs contemplated by the present invention include MSH MSH MSH afamelanotide melanotan 1 bremelanotide melanotan II as well as salts and analogs of any of the foregoing. It is believed that MSH e.g. MSH itself immonomodulates inflammation via melanocortin receptor MC 1R expressing monocytes macrophages and dendritic cells DCs and via primed regulatory MC5r expressing antigen specific CD25CD4 Treg cells. In some aspects MSH e.g. MSH downregulates the production of proinflammatory and immunomodulating cytokines IL 1 IL 6 TNF alpha IL 2 IFN gamma IL 4 IL 13 as well as the expression of costimulatory molecules CD86 CD40 ICAM 1 on antigen presenting DCs. Thus in some aspects compositions comprising MSH e.g. MSH or its C terminal tripeptide KPV e.g. those described herein may be effective for immune modulation and or treatment of autoimmune disease e.g. by immunomodulating inflammation via melanocortin receptor MC 1R expressing immune cells.

In certain embodiments the composition a thymosin peptide e.g. thymosin 4 thymosin beta 4 and analogs thereof e.g. thymosin 4 sulfoxide. Thymosin 4 is a 44 amino acid peptide encoded by the TMSB4X gene. Thymosin 4 e.g. thymosin 4 sulfoxide may act as a signal to inhibit an inflammatory response. In some embodiments compositions e.g. those described herein comprising a thymosin peptide e.g. thymosin 4 and analogs thereof e.g. thymosin 4 sulfoxide may be effective for immune modulation and or treatment of autoimmune disease e.g. by providing inhibitory signals of inflammatory responses.

In addition there may be synergistic effects with nitric oxide since nitric oxide also acts both to increase immune production and or directly as an antimicrobial agent in some cases. Thus by applying peptides such as TRH MSH GnRH thymosin etc. to a subject inflammation within the subject may be reduced in some cases. Any combination of one or more than one of these peptides may be used in various embodiments with or without nitric oxide.

Accordingly in one set of embodiments application of nitric oxide and or peptides e.g. in a penetrating matrix gel to deliver the active nitric oxide and or peptide may be applied to the skin of a subject e.g. one having or at risk of a disease condition or need described herein. The composition may include any one or more of the peptides described herein with or without nitric oxide. Additionally in some embodiments the composition may be applied in conjunction with other types of treatments to a subject e.g. to the skin of a subject for treatment of any of the diseases conditions or needs described herein. These may be occur e.g. simultaneously or sequentially in various embodiments.

In some cases the compositions and methods described herein can be used to stimulate the absorption of nitric oxide and peptides into cells and tissues and or promote vasodilation of skin tissues. Certain aspects of the present invention thus permit treatment or prevention of various symptoms of autoimmune disease or excessive inflammation.

In some embodiments autoimmune disease generally relates to conditions that arise from an inappropriate immune response of the body against substances and tissues normally present in the body. In other words the immune system mistakes some part of the body as a pathogen and attacks its own cells. In some aspects the treatment of autoimmune diseases is typically with immunosuppression e.g. drugs which decreases the immune response. In some aspects modulation of the immune response e.g. modulation of cytokine profiles cytotoxic activity antibody production and inflammatory states is beneficial in certain autoimmune diseases. In certain embodiments compositions described herein are useful in immune modulation and or treatment of autoimmune disease e.g. when administered topically or transdermally to a subject. For example when applied to the skin of a subject certain compositions comprising nitric oxide and peptides as described herein modulate the immune system of the subject e.g. suppress certain immune responses. In some embodiments certain compositions described herein are administered to a subject having or at risk of having an autoimmune disease.

Examples of autoimmune disease contemplated by the present invention include but are not limited to alopecia areata anklosing spondylitis antiphospholipid syndrome autoimmune Addison s disease autoimmune hemolytic anemia autoimmune hepatitis autoimmune inner ear disease autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome ALPS autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura ATP autoimmune thyroiditis Behcet s disease bullous pemphigoid cardiomyopathy celiac Sprue Dermatitis chronic fatigue syndrome immune deficiency syndrome CFIDS chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy cicatricial pemphigoid cold agglutinin disease CREST Syndrome Crohn s disease Dego s disease dermatomyositis dermatomyositis juvenile discoid lupus essential mixed cryoglobulinemia fibromyalgia fibromyositis Grave s disease Goodpasture s disease Guillain Barre Hashimoto s thyroiditis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura ITP IgA nephropathy insulin dependent diabetes Type I juvenile arthritis lupus Meniere s disease mixed connective tissue disease multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis pemphigus vulgaris pernicious anemia polyarteritis nodosa polychondritis polyglancular syndromes polymyalgia rheumatica polymyositis and dermatomyositis primary agammaglobulinemia primary biliary cirrhosis psoriasis Raynaud s phenomenon Reiter s syndrome rheumatic fever rheumatoid arthritis sarcoidosis scleroderma Sjogren s syndrome stiff man syndrome Takayasu arteritis temporal arteritis giant cell arteritis ulcerative colitis uveitis vasculitis vitiligo or Wegener s granulomatosis.

Without being bound by any particular mechanism compositions comprising nitric oxide with or without a peptide as described herein may be beneficial for immune modulation and or treating autoimmune disease e.g. by modulating the function and or production of cytokines chemokines and or growth factors e.g. IL 1 IL 6 IL 8 IL 10 IL 12 IL 18 IFN TNF TGF G CSF M CSF VEGF MIP 1 MIP 2 and MCP 1 .

In certain embodiments of the present invention nitric oxide gas itself is entrapped or contained within various compositions as discussed herein for example in liquid crystal multilamellar phosphatidylcholine. In addition in certain embodiments as discussed below the composition may be stable and can be stored for periods of time with little or no loss or reaction of the nitric oxide contained therein.

In some embodiments the nitric oxide and or a peptide within the composition is stable at room temperature and may remain active for extended periods of time for example for at least 1 year at least 1.5 years at least 2 years at least 2.5 years at least 3 years at least 4 years etc. The nitric oxide and the peptide may be released for example when the composition is exposed to an aqueous environment e.g. within the body. Without wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that when the composition is applied to the skin the liquid crystal structure collapses delivering nitric oxide and or the peptides to e.g. a muscle or other desired area of treatment. The concentration of the nitric oxide and the peptide inside the liquid crystal matrix can be varied in terms of concentration. The matrix also may act as a sustained release and delivery system in some embodiments. It is also believed that the liquid crystal is highly penetrating such that nitric oxide and the peptide can be delivered to the epidermis dermis and dermal vascular for systemic release as well as to subcutaneous fat at least under some conditions.

Since nitric oxide is an unstable and reactive gas entrapment storage and release of nitric oxide requires careful formulation in some embodiments of the invention. For example nitric oxide readily reacts with water to form nitrous acid HNO and thus certain embodiments of the invention include compositions or phases that are substantially free of water. As another example in one set of embodiments nitric oxide may be contained within a first phase comprising a lecithin such as phosphatidylcholine which may be present within a second phase comprising an emulsifier such as is discussed herein. Other components for example transdermal penetration enhancers adjuvants surfactants lubricants etc. can also be present in certain cases.

Thus the compositions of the invention comprise in certain aspects a phase comprising phosphatidylcholine and or other lecithins in which nitric oxide and or peptide is contained within or trapped. The phosphatidylcholine or lecithin may be contained within a second phase for example comprising an emulsifier which may cause the phosphatidylcholine or lecithin to form vesicles e.g. micelles or liposomes. The phosphatidylcholine or lecithin composition can be unilamellar or multilamellar in some embodiments. In some instances the presence of the second phase causes the phosphatidylcholine or lecithin to form a liquid crystal arrangement.

The nitric oxide is typically gaseous and may be present within the composition as small bubbles and or bound to lecithins or phosphatidylcholines within the composition. For example the nitric oxide may be bound to double bonds present in the lecithins or phosphatidylcholines. Phosphatidylcholine is believed to stabilize and or contain the nitric oxide. In some cases stability of the composition can be achieved at room temperature about 25 C. and or at other temperatures such as those described herein. Without wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that the phosphatidylcholine adopts a liquid crystal structure under such conditions which can thereby contain the nitric oxide e.g. as small gaseous bubbles and or through binding with lecithins or phosphatidylcholines. Similarly without wishing to be bound by any theory it is contemplated that peptides are also contained within the vesicular and or liquid crystal structure of phosphatidylcholine or other carriers described herein. In some aspects without wishing to be bound by any theory the peptide depending on its hydrophobicity may be contained within phosphatidylcholine vesicular membrane or may be tightly associated with the inner or outer surface of the membrane.

Nitric oxide is typically reactive with water e.g. forming nitrous acid which contributes to its relatively short lifetime within the body or within other aqueous environments. Accordingly in certain embodiments of the invention the composition or at least a phase of the composition comprising the nitric oxide and or the second phase and or one or more materials used to prepare a nitric oxide composition and or a nitric oxide composition prepared as described herein is substantially free of water e.g. comprising no more than about 10 wt no more than about 3 wt no more than about 1 wt no more than about 0.3 wt or no more than about 0.1 wt water i.e. relative to the weight of the overall composition . The composition may also have no more than about 1 000 ppm no more than about 750 ppm no more than about 500 ppm no more than about 400 ppm no more than about 300 ppm no more than about 250 ppm no more than about 200 ppm no more than about 150 ppm no more than about 100 ppm no more than about 50 ppm no more than about 25 ppm or no more than about 10 ppm of water. In certain embodiments no detectable water may be present in the composition or at least within a phase of the composition comprising the nitric oxide. Any suitable technique can be used for determining the amount of water present in the composition for example Karl Fisher titration. In some cases the composition may also be free of any liquids that typically contain water e.g. physiological buffers body fluids saline or the like.

Any suitable amount of nitric oxide may be present within a composition prepared as described herein. For example at least about 0.3 wt at least about 0.5 wt at least about 0.7 wt at least about 1 wt at least about 1.5 wt at least about 2 wt at least about 2.5 wt at least about 3 wt at least about 5 wt at least about 10 wt at least about 20 wt at least about 30 wt at least about 40 wt at least about 50 wt at least about 60 wt at least about 70 wt at least about 80 wt at least about 90 wt at least about 100 wt at least about 110 wt or at least about 120 wt of the composition can be nitric oxide where the basis of the weight percentage is the weight of the composition before nitric oxide is added. Combinations of any of these are also possible. For example the nitric oxide may be present at between 70 wt and about 120 wt of the composition.

In some embodiments the nitric oxide may be present at a concentration of at least about 400 mg kg at least about 450 mg kg at least about 500 mg kg at least about 550 mg kg at least about 570 mg kg at least about 600 mg kg at least about 650 mg kg at least about 700 mg kg at least about 750 mg kg at least about 800 mg kg at least about 850 mg kg at least about 950 mg kg or at least about 1000 mg kg of the composition. In certain cases the nitric oxide may be present at a concentration of no more than about 2000 mg kg no more than about 1500 mg kg no more than about 1000 mg kg no more than about 960 mg kg no more than about 900 mg kg no more than about 800 mg kg no more than about 700 mg kg or no more than about 600 mg kg. Combinations of any of these are also possible. For example the nitric oxide may be present at a concentration of between about 570 mg kg and about 960 mg kg.

In some embodiments the nitric oxide is present at a concentration e.g. on a per mass basis of at least about 100 ppm at least about 200 ppm at least about 300 ppm at least about 400 ppm at least about 500 ppm at least about 600 ppm at least about 700 ppm at least about 800 ppm at least about 900 ppm at least about 1000 ppm at least about 1100 ppm at least about 1200 ppm at least about 1300 ppm at least about 1400 ppm at least about 1500 ppm at least about 1600 ppm at least about 1700 ppm at least about 1800 ppm at least about 1900 ppm at least about 2000 ppm at least about 2500 ppm at least about 3000 ppm at least about 3500 ppm at least about 4000 ppm at least about 4500 ppm at least about 5000 ppm at least about 6000 ppm at least about 7000 ppm at least about 8000 ppm at least about 9000 ppm or at least about 10000 ppm of the composition. In other embodiments the nitric oxide is present at a concentration of no more than about 11000 ppm no more than about 10000 ppm no more than about 9000 ppm no more than about 8000 ppm no more than about 7000 ppm no more than about 6000 ppm no more than about 5000 ppm no more than about 4500 ppm no more than about 4000 ppm no more than about 3500 ppm no more than about 3000 ppm no more than about 2500 ppm no more than about 2000 ppm no more than about 1900 ppm no more than about 1800 ppm no more than about 1700 ppm no more than about 1600 ppm no more than about 1500 ppm no more than about 1400 ppm no more than about 1300 ppm no more than about 1200 ppm no more than about 1100 ppm no more than about 1000 ppm no more than about 900 ppm no more than about 800 ppm no more than about 700 ppm no more than about 600 ppm no more than about 500 ppm no more than about 400 ppm or no more than about 300 ppm of the composition. Combinations of any of these are also possible. For example in some embodiments nitric oxide is present at a concentration of between about 400 and about 900 ppm. NO content can be measured by any suitable technique. For example in some embodiments NO content is measured using a nitric oxide biosensor e.g. nitric oxide macrosensor with nitric oxide specific electrode from WPI Instruments . In some embodiments NO content is measured by a change in weight in the composition after adding NO.

In some embodiments nitric oxide and or peptide is present within a first phase comprising a lecithin such as phosphatidylcholine. Phosphatidylcholine herein abbreviated PC is a basic component of cell membrane bilayers and the main phospholipid circulating in the plasma of blood. Phosphatidylcholine typically has a phospholipid structure with a choline head group and a glycerophosphoric acid tail group. The tail group can be saturated or unsaturated. More than one tail group may be present in the phosphatidylcholine in some cases and the tail groups may be the same or different. Specific non limiting examples of phosphatidylcholines that could be used include one or a mixture of stearic palmitic margaric and or oleic acid diglycerides linked to a choline ester head group.

Phosphatidylcholines are a member of a class of compounds called lecithins. Typically a lecithin is a composed of phosphoric acid choline fatty acids glycerol glycolipids triglycerides and or phospholipids. In some cases other lecithins may be used in addition to or instead of a phosphatidylcholine. Non limiting examples of other lecithins include phosphatidylethanolamine phosphatidylinositol or phosphatidic acid. Many commercial lecithin products are available such as for example Lecithol Vitellin Kelecin and Granulestin . Lecithin is widely used in the food industry. In some embodiments certain compositions of the invention can contain synthetic or natural lecithin or mixtures thereof. Natural preparations are used in some cases because they exhibit desirable physical characteristics and or may be economical or nontoxic. However in other embodiments non natural preparations are used or the composition can include both natural and non natural preparations.

Any suitable amount of phosphatidylcholine or lecithin may be present within the composition. For example at least about 0.25 wt at least about 0.5 wt at least about 1 wt at least about 2 wt at least about 3 wt at least about 5 wt at least about 8 wt at least about 10 wt at least about 20 wt at least about 30 wt at least about 40 wt at least about 50 wt at least about 60 wt at least about 70 wt at least about 80 wt or at least about 90 wt of the entire composition can be a phosphatidylcholine or a lecithin. In some cases the phosphatidylcholine or lecithin may be present at a concentration of no more than about 95 wt no more than about 90 wt no more than about 80 wt no more than about 70 wt no more than about 65 wt no more than about 60 wt no more than about 50 wt no more than about 40 wt no more than about 30 wt no more than about 20 wt or no more than about 10 . Combinations of any of these are also possible. For instance the phosphatidylcholine or lecithin may be present at between about 8 wt and about 65 wt or between about 0 wt and about 10 wt etc. One or more than one type of phosphatidylcholine or lecithin may be present.

Some delivery compositions of the present invention may contain polyenylphosphatidylcholine herein abbreviated PPC . In some cases PPC can be used to enhance epidermal penetration. The term polyenylphosphatidylcholine as used herein means any phosphatidylcholine bearing two fatty acid moieties wherein at least one of the two fatty acids is an unsaturated fatty acid with at least two double bonds in its structure such as linoleic acid.

Certain types of soybean lecithin and soybean fractions for example can contain higher levels of polyenylphosphatidylcholine with dilinoleoylphosphatidylcholine 18 2 18 2 phosphatidylcholine as the most abundant phosphatidylcholine species therein than conventional food grade lecithin. Such lecithins may be useful in formulating certain delivery compositions. In some embodiments conventional soybean lecithin may be enriched with polyenylphosphatidylcholine for instance by adding soybean extracts containing high levels of polyenylphosphatidylcholine. As used herein this type of phosphatidylcholine is called polyenylphosphatidylcholine enriched phosphatidylcholine hereinafter referred to as PPC enriched phosphatidylcholine even where the term encompasses lecithin obtained from natural sources exhibiting polyenylphosphatidylcholine levels higher than ordinary soybean varieties. These products are commercially available for example from American Lecithin Company Rhone Poulenc and other lecithin vendors. American Lecithin Company markets its products with a U designation indicating high levels of unsaturation Rhone Poulenc s product is a soybean extract containing about 42 dilinoleoylphosphatidylcholine and about 24 palmitoyllinoleylphosphatidylcholine 16 0 to 18 2 of PC as the major phosphatidylcholine components. Another example of a suitable polyenylphosphatidylcholine is NAT 8729 also commercially available from vendors such as Rhone Poulenc and American Lecithin Company .

Any suitable amount of polyenylphosphatidylcholine may be present within the composition. For example at least about 0.25 wt at least about 0.5 wt at least about 1 wt at least about 2 wt at least about 3 wt at least about 5 wt at least about 8 wt at least about 10 wt at least about 20 wt at least about 30 wt at least about 40 wt at least about 50 wt at least about 60 wt at least about 70 wt at least about 80 wt or at least about 90 wt of the composition can be polyenylphosphatidylcholine. In some cases the polyenylphosphatidylcholine may be present at a concentration of no more than about 95 wt no more than about 90 wt no more than about 80 wt no more than about 70 wt no more than about 65 wt no more than about 60 wt no more than about 50 wt no more than about 40 wt no more than about 30 wt no more than about 20 wt or no more than about 10 . Combinations of any of these are also possible. For instance the polyenylphosphatidylcholine may be present at between about 8 wt and about 65 wt . In some embodiments at least about 20 wt at least about 30 wt at least about 40 wt at least about 50 wt at least about 60 wt at least about 70 wt at least about 80 wt at least about 90 wt or about 100 wt of all of the phosphatidylcholine or lecithin in the composition is polyenylphosphatidylcholine.

While not wishing to be bound to any theory it is believed that the PPC enriched phosphatidylcholine forms a bilayer enveloping nitric oxide and or peptides and in some embodiments other adjunct ingredients if present to create the composition. The PPC enriched phosphatidylcholine is believed to contribute to the stability of the nitric oxide and or peptide for example by shielding the nitric oxide and or peptide from water and or by enhancing its penetration into the skin or other area.

The first phase also comprises in some embodiments of the invention a fatty acid ester. Non limiting examples include ascorbate palmitate or isopropyl palmitate. In some cases the fatty acid ester is used as a preservative or an antioxidant. The composition can include any suitable amount of fatty acid ester for example at least about 1 wt at least about 3 wt at least about 5 wt at least about 10 wt at least about 20 wt at least about 30 wt at least about 40 wt at least about 50 wt etc. In some cases no more than about 60 wt no more than about 50 wt no more than about 40 wt no more than about 30 wt no more than about 20 wt no more than about 18 wt no more than about 15 wt no more than about 12 wt or no more than about 10 wt of the composition is fatty acid ester. Combinations of any of these are also possible. For example the composition may be between about 0 wt and about 10 wt fatty acid ester. The composition may include one or more than one fatty acid ester.

In certain embodiments a composition such as those described herein can be formulated to include a second phase. Typically the second phase is substantially immiscible with the first phase comprising phosphatidylcholine or lecithin. Two phases that are substantially immiscible are able to form discrete phases when exposed to each other at ambient conditions e.g. 25 C. and 1 atm for extended periods of time e.g. at least about a day . The phases can be separate identifiable phases e.g. one may float above the other or in some cases the phases are intermingled e.g. as in an emulsion. The stability of the discrete phases may be kinetic and or thermodynamic in nature in various embodiments.

In one set of embodiments the second phase may comprise an emulsifier which causes the first phase comprising phosphatidylcholine or lecithin to form a liquid crystal and or vesicles such as micelles or liposomes. Typically in a liquid crystal phase vesicular structures such as micelles liposomes hexagonal phases or lipid bilayers can be formed. In some cases multilamellar structures may be present within the liquid crystal phase although in other cases only unilamellar structures may be present. For example in certain cases the PPC enriched phosphatidylcholine can be loosely arranged in a multilamellar fashion with nitric oxide and or peptide and optional adjunct ingredients being bonded or otherwise entrapped or contained within the lipid bilayers formed therein. In some cases the first phase e.g. comprising PPC enriched phosphatidylcholine and the second phase can form a structure such as is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 182 956 to Perricone et al. This is believed without wishing to be bound by any theory to form a loosely arranged yet stable PPC enriched phosphatidylcholine drug complex that may allow penetration and delivery of nitric oxide and or peptide and optional adjunct ingredients to the skin e.g. to the dermal vasculature.

In one set of embodiments the second phase comprises an emulsifier. The emulsifier in one embodiment is a substance that is able to stabilize an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stability. The emulsifier may also be chosen in some cases to be relatively inert or non toxic relative to the skin.

In some embodiments the second phase may comprise a polyglycol. The polyglycol may include a polyhydric alcohol of a monomeric glycol such as polyethylene glycol PEG and or polypropylene glycol PPG . For example the PEG or PPG may be PEG or PPG 200 300 400 600 1 000 1 450 3 350 4 000 6 000 8 000 and 20 000 where the number indicates the approximate average molecular weight of the PEG or PPG. As is understood by those of ordinary skill in the art a polyglycol composition often will comprise a range of molecular weights although the approximate average molecular weight is used to identify the type polyglycol. More than one PEG and or PPG can also be present in certain instances.

The second phase may comprise a surfactant in some embodiments. Non limiting examples of surfactants include a siloxylated polyether comprising dimethyl methyl propylpolyethylene oxide propylene oxide acetate siloxane commercially available from vendors such as Dow Corning Dow Corning 190 surfactant . Other examples of materials that can be used as or within the second phase include but are not limited to 1 2 propanediol or silicone fluids containing low viscosity polydimethylsiloxane polymers methylparaben p hydroxy benzoic acid methyl ester commercially available from vendors such as Dow Corning Dow Corning 200 silicone fluid . Still other examples include various siloxane or silicone compounds e.g. hexamethyldisiloxane amodimethicone phenyltrimethicone etc.

Additionally purified water may be added to the second phase in some embodiments although in other cases little or no water is present in the second phase. For example the first phase the second phase can contain less than 10 less than 5 less than 2 less than 1 or less that 0.05 e.g. wt of water relative to the weight of the respective phase or of the entire composition. In some cases the second phase may also comprise adjunct ingredients such as those described herein.

The second phase may include any one or more than one of the materials described above. In addition any suitable amount of second phase can be used in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. For example the second phase may be present at at least about 10 wt at least about 20 wt at least about 30 wt at least about 40 wt at least about 50 wt at least about 60 wt at least about 70 wt at least about 80 wt or at least about 90 wt of the composition. In some cases the ratio of the first phase e.g. comprising phosphatidylcholine or lecithin to the second phase can be at least about 1 3 at least about 1 2 at least about 1 1 at least about 2 1 at least about 3 1 or at least about 4 1 etc.

In certain embodiments a composition such as those described herein e.g. those containing a peptide and in some aspects also containing nitric oxide may comprise a polyglycol. The polyglycol may include a polyhydric alcohol of a monomeric glycol such as polyethylene glycol PEG and or polypropylene glycol PPG . For example the PEG or PPG may be PEG or PPG 200 300 400 600 1 000 1 450 3 350 4 000 6 000 8 000 and 20 000 where the number indicates the approximate average molecular weight of the PEG or PPG. As is understood by those of ordinary skill in the art a polyglycol composition often will comprise a range of molecular weights although the approximate average molecular weight is used to identify the type polyglycol.

More than one PEG and or PPG can also be present in certain instances. The composition can include any suitable amount of polyglycol for example at least about 1 wt at least about 3 wt at least about 5 wt at least about 10 wt at least about 20 wt at least about 30 wt at least about 40 wt at least about 50 wt etc. In some cases no more than about 60 wt no more than about 50 wt no more than about 40 wt no more than about 30 wt no more than about 20 wt no more than about 18 wt no more than about 15 wt no more than about 12 wt or no more than about 10 wt of the composition is polyglycol. Combinations of any of these are also possible. For example the composition may be between about 0 wt and about 10 wt polyglycol. The composition may include one or more than one type of polyglycol.

In some aspects the formulation comprises a phosphatidylcholine e.g. any of those described herein Phospholipon 90G American Lecithin Company . The composition can include any suitable amount of phosphatidylcholine for example at least about 1 wt at least about 3 wt at least about 5 wt at least about 10 wt at least about 20 wt at least about 30 wt at least about 40 wt at least about 50 wt at least about 60 wt at least about 70 wt at least about 80 wt at least about 90 wt etc. In some cases no more than about 90 wt no more than about 80 wt no more than about 70 wt no more than about 60 wt no more than about 50 wt no more than about 40 wt no more than about 30 wt no more than about 20 wt no more than about 10 wt or no more than about 5 wt of the composition is phosphatidylcholine. Combinations of any of these are also possible. For example the composition may be between about 0 wt and about 10 wt surfactant. The composition may include one or more than one phosphatidylcholine. Other examples of materials that can be used as or within the formulation include but are not limited to benzyl alcohol ethyl alcohol isopropyl palmitate IPP propanediol and caprylic capric triglycerides.

Any suitable amount of peptide may be present within a composition prepared as described herein. One or more than one peptide may be present in some cases. For example a peptide may be present at a concentration with respect to the volume of carrier in cubic centimeters containing the peptide of at least about 0.01 mg cc at least about 0.02 mg cc at least about 0.03 mg cc at least about 0.04 mg cc at least about 0.05 mc cc at least about 0.06 mg cc at least about 0.07 mg cc at least about 0.08 mg cc at least about 0.09 mg cc at least about 0.10 mg cc at least about 0.20 mg cc at least about 0.30 mg cc at least about 0.40 mg cc at least about 0.50 mg cc at least about 0.60 mg cc at least about 0.70 mg cc at least about 0.80 mg cc at least about 0.90 mg cc at least about 1.0 mg cc at least about 1.5 mg cc at least about 2.0 mg cc at least about 2.5 mg cc at least about 3.0 mg cc at least about 3.5 mg cc at least about 4.0 mg cc at least about 4.5 mg cc at least about 5.0 mg cc at least about 5.5 mg cc at least about 6.0 mg cc at least about 6.5 mg cc at least about 7.0 mg cc at least about 7.5 mg cc at least about 8.0 mg cc at least about 8.5 mg cc at least about 9.0 mg cc at least about 9.5 mg cc at least about 10.0 mg cc at least about 15.0 mg cc at least about 20.0 mg cc at least about 25.0 mg cc at least about 30.0 mg cc at least about 35.0 mg cc at least about 40.0 mg cc at least about 45.0 mg cc at least about 50.0 mg cc at least about 60.0 mg cc at least about 70.0 mg cc at least about 80.0 mg cc at least about 90.0 mg cc at least about 100 mg cc at least about 125 mg cc at least about 150 mg cc at least about 175 mg cc at least about 200 mg cc at least about 250 mg cc at least about 300 mg cc at least about 400 mg cc at least about 500 mg cc at least about 750 mg cc or at least about 1000 mg cc.

In certain cases the peptide may be present at a concentration of no more than about 1500 mg cc no more than about 1000 mg cc no more than about 800 mg cc no more than about 600 mg cc no more than about 400 mg cc no more than about 200 mg cc no more than about 100 mg cc no more than about 75 mg cc no more than about 50 mg cc no more than about 25 mg cc no more than about 20 mg cc no more than about 15 mg cc no more than about 12.5 mg cc no more than about 10.0 mg cc no more than about 9.0 mg cc no more than about 8.0 mg cc no more than about 7.0 mg cc no more than about 6.0 mg cc no more than about 5.5 mg cc no more than about 5.0 no more than about 4.5 mg cc no more than about 4.0 mg cc no more than about 3.5 mg cc no more than about 3.0 mg cc no more than about 2.5 mg cc no more than about 2.0 mg cc no more than about 1.5 mg cc no more than about 1.0 mg cc no more than about 0.5 mg cc no more than about 0.1 mg cc or no more than about 0.01 mg cc. Combinations of any of these are also possible. For example the peptide may be present at a concentration of between about 0.5 mg cc and about 50.0 mg cc. In some embodiments the composition also comprises a suitable amount of nitric oxide e.g. as provided herein.

In some embodiments a peptide may be added to a composition during or after the formulation of any phase or composition as described herein e.g. by routine methods known in the art. For example the peptide may be added to any phase of a formulation or composition or after any formulation or composition described herein is made. In some cases for example the peptide may be added before or after nitric oxide is added to the mixture or before or after the first and second phases are mixed together. The peptide may be added to either the first phase or the second phase depending on the type of peptide. In some cases the peptide may be added after the first phase or the second phase after emulsification. The peptide may be present in a hydrophilic portion e.g. a first portion or a hydrophobic portion e.g. a second portion of a formulation depending on the peptide. For example if the formulation is an emulsion a hydrophilic peptide may be contained within a hydrophilic phase of the emulsion while a hydrophobic peptide may be contained within a hydrophobic phase of the emulsion a peptide having both hydrophilic portions and hydrophobic portions may be contained at an interface between hydrophilic and hydrophobic phases of the emulsion. Accordingly a variety of peptides having different properties may be used in various formulations and embodiments of the present invention including any of the peptides described herein. Similarly nitric oxide may be added during or after the formulation of any phase or composition as described herein e.g. by routine methods and those described herein e.g. by bubbling nitric oxide gas through any phase formulation or composition as described herein.

In another set of embodiments the composition may also include one or more transdermal penetration enhancers. Examples of transdermal penetration enhancers include but are not limited to 1 3 dimethyl 2 imidazolidinone or 1 2 propanediol. Other examples include cationic anionic or nonionic surfactants e.g. sodium dodecyl sulfate polyoxamers etc. fatty acids and alcohols e.g. ethanol oleic acid lauric acid liposomes etc. anticholinergic agents e.g. benzilonium bromide oxyphenonium bromide alkanones e.g. n heptane amides e.g. urea N N dimethyl m toluamide organic acids e.g. citric acid sulfoxides e.g. dimethylsulfoxide terpenes e.g. cyclohexene ureas sugars carbohydrates or other agents. The transdermal penetration enhancers can be present in any suitable amount within the composition. For example at least about 10 wt at least about 20 wt at least about 30 wt at least about 40 wt or at least about 50 wt of the composition may comprise one or more transdermal penetration enhancers. In some cases no more than about 60 wt no more than about 50 wt no more than about 40 wt no more than about 30 wt no more than about 20 wt no more than about 10 wt no more than about 9 wt or no more than about 5 wt of the composition comprises transdermal penetration enhancers. Combinations of any of these are also possible. For example the composition may have between about 0 wt and about 5 wt of one or more transdermal penetration enhancers.

In other embodiments the composition may be modified in order to control depth of penetration. For example in certain embodiments the composition includes one or more polymers that act to reduce penetration depth of nitric oxide and or peptide. Controlled depth of penetration may be important for indications where local administration is desired without systemic effects. Examples of transdermal penetration barrier polymers include but are not limited to silicone waxes acrylate polymers and dimethicone copolymers. In certain embodiments a transdermal penetration barrier polymer is nonionic. A transdermal penetration barrier polymer can be present in any suitable amount within the composition. For example at least about 10 wt at least about 20 wt at least about 30 wt at least about 40 wt or at least about 50 wt of the composition may comprise one or more transdermal penetration barrier polymers. In some cases no more than about 60 wt no more than about 50 wt no more than about 40 wt no more than about 30 wt no more than about 20 wt no more than about 10 wt no more than about 9 wt or no more than about 5 wt of the composition comprises a transdermal penetration barrier polymer. Combinations of any of these are also possible. For example the composition may have between about 0 wt and about 5 wt of one or more transdermal penetration barrier polymers.

As a specific non limiting example of one set of embodiments a polyenylphosphatidylcholine comprises a certain material with the trade name NAT 8729 and optionally at least one polyglycol polyhydric alcohol of a monomeric glycol such as polyethylene glycol 200 300 400 600 1 000 1 450 3 350 4 000 6 000 8 000 and 20 000 . The composition can also comprise a PPC enriched phosphatidylcholine material that is present within the first or second phase e.g. comprising nitric oxide. The second phase may also comprise a surfactant such as a siloxylated polyether comprising dimethyl methyl propylpolyethylene oxide propylene oxide acetate siloxane commercially available from vendors such as Dow Corning Dow Corning 190 surfactant and lubricant such as silicone fluids containing low viscosity polydimethylsiloxane polymers methylparaben p hydroxy benzoic acid methyl ester commercially available from vendors such as Down Corning Dow Corning 200 silicone fluid .

In some embodiments various compositions of the invention are formulated to be substantially clear or substantially transparent. Transparency may be useful for instance for product acceptance in the marketplace e.g. when applied to the skin of a subject. However in other embodiments the composition is not necessarily transparent. Certain substances can be useful in providing a substantially transparent composition for example fatty acid esters such as ascorbate palmitate or isopropyl palmitate. In one set of embodiments the composition may be substantially transparent such that incident visible light e.g. have wavelengths of between about 400 nm and about 700 nm can be transmitted through 1 cm of the composition with a loss in intensity of no more than about 50 about 60 about 70 about 80 or about 90 relative to the incident light. In some embodiments there may be no substantial difference in the wavelengths that are absorbed by the composition i.e. white light passing through the composition appears white although in other cases there can be more absorption at various wavelengths for example such that white light passing through the composition may appear colored .

Other components may also be present within the composition in accordance with certain embodiments of the invention. For example the composition may include volatile organic fluids fatty acids volatile aromatic cyclic compounds high molecular weight hydrocarbons or the like.

In accordance with certain aspects of the invention the composition may be prepared by mixing a first phase and a second phase together then passing nitric oxide through the mixture. As discussed above the second phase can comprise an emulsifier or any other components discussed herein. The first phase may comprise a lecithin such as phosphatidylcholine and or polyenylphosphatidylcholine e.g. PPC enriched phosphatidylcholine for instance as described herein. In some embodiments other components are also mixed into the composition before or after or while adding nitric oxide for example transdermal penetration enhancers adjuvants polyglycols e.g. PEG and or PPG surfactants lubricants etc. as discussed herein. In some embodiments however nitric oxide may be passed through the first phase prior to mixing of the first phase with the second phase.

In one set of embodiments after forming the mixture nitric oxide can be passed into or through the mixture for example by blowing bubbles of nitric oxide through the mixture. Nitric oxide may be delivered into the mixture under pressures such as between about 3 000 Pa and about 15 000 Pa between about 5 000 Pa and about 10 000 Pa or between about 6 000 Pa and about 8 000 Pa and or temperatures such as between about 0 C. and about 50 C. between about 20 C. and about 35 C. or about 25 C. and about 30 C. However higher or lower pressures also may be used in some embodiments as aspects of the invention are not limited in this respect.

In certain embodiments the nitric oxide is bubbled through the mixture until the mixture begins to at least partially solidify. As an example the viscosity of the mixture may increase to at least about 1 000 cP at least about 2 000 cP at least about 3 000 cP at least about 5 000 cP at least about 7 000 cP at least about 10 000 cP at least about 12 000 cP at least about 15 000 cP at least about 20 000 cP at least about 30 000 cP at least about 40 000 cP at least about 50 000 cP at least about 60 000 cP at least about 70 000 cP or at least about 80 000 cP. The nitric oxide can be passed through the mixture as pure nitric oxide and or with other gases e.g. a noble gas for example argon . In some cases a nitric oxide donor may be passed into the mixture and therein at least some of the nitric oxide donor can be converted into nitric oxide. In other embodiments however the final composition may have lower viscosities for example such that the composition is liquid or could be sprayed onto the skin.

In one set of embodiments the nitric oxide can be bubbled through the mixture to cause the viscosity of the mixture to increase. For example the viscosity can increase until the mixture begins to form a gel a cream a lotion an ointment a solid stick or the like. A cream may be for example a semi solid emulsion e.g. comprising a first phase and a second phase. The first phase may be discontinuous e.g. comprising small droplets or vesicles such as is discussed herein and the second phase may be continuous or vice versa. In some cases however both the first phase and the second phase are co continuous within the mixture.

In some embodiments of the invention a composition may be prepared as discussed above then diluted e.g. with a diluent to produce a final composition. For example a stock composition may be initially prepared e.g. having a relatively high nitric oxide and or peptide concentration then the stock composition diluted to produce a final composition e.g. before use before storage before packaging etc. In some embodiments the diluent used may be a component as discussed herein for example forming at least a portion of the second phase and the same or different materials than may be present in the initial composition may be used. The dilution ratio amount of diluent added relative to the initial composition may be at least about 2 at least about 3 at least about 5 at least about 10 at least about 15 at least about 20 at least about 25 at least about 30 at least about 50 or at least about 100 or any other suitable factor.

A composition may be prepared and or stored at any suitable temperature and under any suitable conditions. In some embodiments for instance a composition can be prepared and or stored under limited or no oxygen conditions as oxygen can adversely react with nitric oxide. The composition can also be prepared and or stored under limited or no nitrogen and or carbon dioxide as both can also react adversely with nitric oxide. For instance the composition may be prepared and or stored in a sealed environment e.g. stored in a sealed container . The sealed environment e.g. container can be at least substantially devoid of gas and or contains a gaseous mixture that excludes or at least is depleted in oxygen. In some embodiments an environment depleted in oxygen may have less than about 20 less than about 15 less than about 10 less than about 5 about 1 or less about 0.1 or less about 0.01 or less about 0.001 or less oxygen e.g. as a wt or as molar per volume . For example the gaseous mixture may include a noble gas such as argon helium neon etc. In one set of embodiments the container may comprise a multi layered metallic and or polymeric barrier e.g. formed from Glaminate American Can Company . For instance the container may have the shape of a tube. Thus in certain embodiments the container is substantially resistant to oxygen permeation nitrogen permeation and or carbon dioxide permeation. In certain embodiments the container is substantially watertight for example such that substantially no water is absorbed by the container or such that no water is able to pass through the container even if the container is filled with water.

As previously discussed nitric oxide can react with water and thus compositions described herein may be prepared and or stored under conditions where substantially no water is present. For example nitric oxide and or a nitric oxide containing preparation described herein may be prepared and or stored under relatively low relative humidities e.g. less than about 50 RH less than about 40 RH less than about 30 RH less than about 20 RH or less than about 10 RH and or in the presence of a suitable desiccant such as phosphorous pentoxide or silica gel.

In certain embodiments the mixture may be mixed with or otherwise include adjunct ingredients if applicable and nitric oxide may be introduced to the mixture e.g. bubbles of nitric oxide gas may be blown into the mixture until the mixture hardens to obtain the desired final composition. As a specific non limiting example a nitric oxide composition may be formed by preparing a non liposome multilamellar liquid crystal phosphatidylcholine phase for example by providing a polyglycol then introducing phosphatidyl choline into the glycol at room temperature to form a phosphatidylcholine solution. The phosphatidylcholine often comes as a solid e.g. as a brick of material and the phosphatidylcholine may be broken down into smaller pieces to aid in mixing e.g. by shaving or grinding the phosphatidylcholine solid. The phosphatidylcholine solution is mixed until the phosphatidylcholine solution is substantially clear then one may warm the phosphatidylcholine solution to 40 C. mill the warmed solution i.e. low agitation after the initial mixing combine siloxylated polyether and polydimethylsiloxane to form a fluid add the fluid to the warmed solution and milling until the solution is clear adding methyl paraben or other suitable lubricant to the solution and milling until the methyl paraben dissolves in the solution warm water to 40 C. and adding the warmed water slowly to the solution and then ceasing milling of the solution and sweeping the solution e.g. with a sweep mixer to cool to room temperature. Nitric oxide gas can then be bubbled or otherwise introduced into the solution while cooling the solution until the solution begins to harden or becomes stiff e.g. having the consistency of a gel or a cream such as previously described. In some cases the resulting composition is sealed in a container for example as discussed herein. Any suitable container may be used e.g. a tube or a bottle. In addition the composition e.g. within the container may be stored at room temperature or any other suitable temperature. For example a composition of the invention may be stored at or below 80 C. e.g. at or below room temperature about 25 C. or in a refrigerator e.g. at 4 C. for extended period of storage for instance to prevent nitric oxide leakage or denaturing. In some cases storage may extend for at least about a week at least about 4 weeks at least about 6 months at least about a year etc.

It is surprising that according to some embodiments nitric oxide and or peptides not only can be entrapped in phosphatidylcholine or lecithin compositions such as those described herein but also that such entrapped compositions may have a long shelf life especially when refrigerated. No loss or reaction of nitric oxide and or peptide is expected during extended refrigerated storage at least under certain conditions. For instance in certain embodiments the composition may be stored at temperatures of less than about 80 C. less than about 70 C. less than about 60 C. less than about 50 C. less than about 40 C. less than about 30 C. less than about 25 C. less than about 20 C. less than about 15 C. less than about 10 C. less than about 5 C. less than about 0 C. etc. for extended periods of time e.g. at least about a day at least about a week at least about 4 weeks at least about 6 months etc.

Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that nitric oxide forms reversible physical bonds similar to hydrogen bonds or van der Waals forces with phosphatidylcholine or other lecithin molecules e.g. containing one or more double bonds which may allow nitric oxide to become entrapped and thereby remain intact for an extended period of time e.g. during storage. These physical bonds however are believed to be not very stable and may in some cases be easily broken up for example upon various physical agitations such as rubbing the composition against skin thereby releasing the entrapped nitric oxide. While others have stabilized other substances or drugs within phosphatidylcholine or lecithin compositions or vesicles for example protein drugs such as insulin it is surprising that a small highly reactive molecule such as NO could similarly be stabilized especially when it would have been expected that a molecule as small as NO would readily diffuse away from such compositions and or would have reacted with water that is typically present within such compositions.

In some embodiments it is believed that other species reactive with water could also be similarly stabilized e.g. within a composition as herein described. Any species that ordinarily reacts with water could be stabilized within such compositions. Examples of such species include but are not limited to lithium or drugs or polymers with labile bonds susceptible to hydrolysis for instance certain peptides polysaccharides polylactic acid polyglycolic acid etc.

In certain aspects of the invention a composition such as those described herein can be administered to a subject such as a human subject by rubbing it on the skin of the subject e.g. in areas located at or at least within the vicinity of a desired target area. Without wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that phosphatidylcholine provides or facilitates delivery of nitric oxide and peptides to the skin and or to tissues below the skin allowing nitric oxide and peptides to be delivered to a target area. In some embodiments the composition can be applied by rubbing the composition topically against the skin which allows the composition or at least nitric oxide to be absorbed by the skin. The composition can be applied once or more than once. For example the composition may be administered at predetermined intervals. In some embodiments for instance the composition may be applied once per day twice per day 3 times per day 4 times per day once every other day once every three days once every four days etc. The amount of nitric oxide and or peptide necessary to bring about the therapeutic treatment is not fixed per se and may depend upon factors such as the desired outcome the type and severity the disease or condition the form of nitric oxide and or peptide the concentration of nitric oxide and or peptide present within the composition etc.

Thus another aspect of the invention provides methods of administering any composition such as discussed herein to a subject. When administered the compositions of the invention are applied in a therapeutically effective pharmaceutically acceptable amount as a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation. Any of the compositions of the present invention may be administered to the subject in a therapeutically effective dose. When administered to a subject effective amounts will depend on the particular condition being treated and the desired outcome. A therapeutically effective dose may be determined by those of ordinary skill in the art for instance employing factors such as those described herein and using no more than routine experimentation.

In certain embodiments of the invention the administration of various compositions of the invention may be designed so as to result in sequential exposures to the composition over a certain time period for example hours days weeks months or years. This may be accomplished for example by repeated administrations of a composition of the invention by one or more of the methods described herein or by a sustained or controlled release delivery system in which the composition is delivered over a prolonged period without repeated administrations. Administration of the composition using such a delivery system may be for example by a transdermal patch. Maintaining a substantially constant concentration of the composition may be preferred in some cases.

For certain chronic treatments or therapies it is contemplated that a composition as discussed herein may be used to deliver nitric oxide and or peptide to the skin at a relatively high concentration during an initial treatment and the amount of nitric oxide and or peptide may be lowered or titrated down to a relatively lower concentration maintenance dose or amount. A nitric oxide and peptide containing composition as described herein can be used to promote vasodilation of blood vessels within and or under the skin and or be used for immune modulation e.g. anti inflammation.

In some embodiments an effective amount is an amount sufficient to have a measurable positive effect on blood flow and or vasodilation and or a measurable negative effect on blood pressure. In some embodiments the effect on blood flow and or vasodilation is observed local to the site of topical application. In some embodiments an effective amount is an amount sufficient to have a measurable effect on immune modulation such as is described herein.

In one set of embodiments compositions described herein can be administered to a subject in a dosage range from between about 0.01 to about 10 000 mg kg body weight day about 0.01 to about 5000 mg kg body weight day about 0.01 to about 3000 mg kg body weight day about 0.01 to about 1000 mg kg body weight day about 0.01 to about 500 mg kg body weight day about 0.01 to about 300 mg kg body weight day about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg body weight day.

In one set of embodiments the dosage may be between about 0.01 mg and about 500 g between about 0.01 mg and about 300 g between about 0.01 mg and about 100 g between about 0.01 mg and about 30 g between about 0.01 mg and about 10 g between about 0.01 mg and about 3 g between about 0.01 mg and about 1 g between about 0.01 mg and about 300 mg between about 0.01 mg and about 100 mg between about 0.01 mg and about 30 mg between about 0.01 mg and about 10 mg between about 0.01 mg and about 3 mg between about 0.01 mg and about 1 mg between about 0.01 mg and about 0.3 mg or between about 0.01 mg and about 0.1 mg.

In another set of embodiments the dosage may be at least about 0.01 mg at least about 0.02 mg at least about 0.03 mg at least about mg at least about 0.05 mg at least about 0.1 mg at least about 0.2 mg at least about 0.3 mg at least about 0.5 mg at least about 1 mg at least about 2 mg at least about 3 mg at least about 5 mg at least about 10 mg at least about 20 mg at least about 30 mg at least about 50 mg at least about 100 mg at least about 200 mg at least about 300 mg at least about 500 mg at least about 1 g at least about 2 g at least about 3 g at least about 5 g at least about 10 g etc. In some cases the dosage may be no more than about 10 g no more than about 5 g no more than about 3 g no more than about 2 g no more than about 1 g no more than about 500 mg no more than about 300 mg no more than about 200 mg no more than about 100 mg no more than about 50 mg no more than about 30 mg no more than about 20 mg no more than about 10 mg no more than about 5 mg no more than about 3 mg no more than about 2 mg no more than about 1 mg no more than about 0.5 mg no more than about 0.3 mg no more than about 0.2 mg no more than about 0.1 mg no more than about 0.05 mg no more than about 0.03 mg no more than about 0.02 mg no more than about 0.01 mg etc. In some cases combinations of any of these are also possible e.g. between about 0.01 mg and about 0.1 mg.

The compositions described herein can be used in combination therapy with one or more additional therapeutic agents. For combination treatment with more than one active agent where the active agents are in separate dosage formulations the active agents may be administered separately or in conjunction. In addition the administration of one element may be prior to concurrent to or subsequent to the administration of the other agent. In certain embodiments the additional therapeutic agent is present in a provided composition in addition to nitric oxide and or peptides. In other embodiments the additional therapeutic agent is administered separately from the nitric oxide and or peptide containing composition.

When co administered with other agents an effective amount of the second agent will depend on the type of drug used. Suitable dosages are known for approved agents and can be adjusted by the skilled artisan according to the condition of the subject the type of condition s being treated and the amount of a compound described herein being used. In cases where no amount is expressly noted an effective amount should be assumed.

In certain embodiments a nitric oxide and or peptide containing composition as described herein and the additional therapeutic agent are each administered in an effective amount i.e. each in an amount which would be therapeutically effective if administered alone . In other embodiments a nitric oxide and or peptide containing composition as described herein and the additional therapeutic agent are each administered in an amount which alone does not provide a therapeutic effect a sub therapeutic dose . In yet other embodiments a nitric oxide and or peptide containing composition as described herein can be administered in an effective amount while the additional therapeutic agent is administered in a sub therapeutic dose. In still other embodiments a nitric oxide and or peptide containing composition as described herein can be administered in a sub therapeutic dose while the additional therapeutic agent is administered in an effective amount.

As used herein the terms in combination or co administration can be used interchangeably to refer to the use of more than one therapy e.g. one or more prophylactic and or therapeutic agents . The use of the terms does not restrict the order in which therapies e.g. prophylactic and or therapeutic agents are administered to a subject.

Co administration encompasses administration of the first and second amounts of the compounds in an essentially simultaneous manner such as in a single pharmaceutical composition for example capsule or tablet having a fixed ratio of first and second amounts or in multiple separate capsules or tablets for each. In addition such co administration also encompasses use of each compound in a sequential manner in either order. When co administration involves the separate administration of the first amount of a composition as described herein and a second amount of an additional therapeutic agent the compounds are administered sufficiently close in time to have the desired therapeutic effect. For example the period of time between each administration which can result in the desired therapeutic effect can range from minutes to hours and can be determined taking into account the properties of each compound. For example a composition as described herein and the second therapeutic agent can be administered in any order within about 24 hours of each other within about 16 hours of each other within about 8 hours of each other within about 4 hours of each other within about 1 hour of each other or within about 30 minutes of each other.

More specifically a first therapy e.g. a prophylactic or therapeutic agent such as a composition described herein can be administered prior to e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 12 hours 24 hours 48 hours 72 hours 96 hours 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks or 12 weeks before concomitantly with or subsequent to e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 12 hours 24 hours 48 hours 72 hours 96 hours 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks or 12 weeks after the administration of a second therapy to a subject.

In one set of embodiments a composition such as is discussed herein may be applied to the skin of a subject e.g. at any suitable location. The composition may be contacted using any suitable method. For example the composition may be rubbed on poured on applied with an applicator e.g. a gauze pad a swab a bandage etc. or the like. In some cases the composition can be a liquid a gel a cream a lotion an ointment a solid stick or the like that can be applied to the skin by hand for example by rubbing or spraying.

Compared to other means of administration the use of topical administration in certain embodiments of the present invention has various advantages including one or more of the following. In some cases administration of a composition and delivery of nitric oxide and peptides as discussed herein is easier and more effective than other drug administration routes for example oral delivery. Unlike oral administration where a substantial amount of nitric oxide and peptide may be destroyed during the digestive process nitric oxide and peptide delivered topically is not exposed to the digestive tract. Topical application may also allow in some instances relatively steady delivery of nitric oxide and or peptide to the desired target area without the cyclic dosages typical of orally or parenterally administered drugs. In some embodiments topical application may also avoid toxic side effects associated with sustained increased levels of nitric oxide and or peptide typical of oral or parenteral administration.

Compared to other topical delivery systems that employ nitric oxide donors an entity that is able to release nitric oxide such as L arginine nitroglycerin or amyl nitrite as a nitric oxide source various aspects of the present invention utilizing nitric oxide gas have several advantages including one or more of the following. Nitric oxide can be released relatively quickly in some embodiments because the release does not necessarily involve chemical transformations of nitric oxide donors to release nitric oxide. The concentration of nitric oxide can accumulate quickly upon topical administration leading to good therapeutic effect in certain embodiments of the invention. In some embodiments the release rate of nitric oxide can be controlled for instance by physical actions e.g. by controlling how much of the composition is applied to the skin in comparison to nitric oxide donors which release nitric oxide upon chemical stimulation. Moreover certain embodiments of the present invention employ phosphatidylcholine a component of cell membranes as a carrier which improves the penetration and absorption of nitric oxide into cells and tissues. Thus certain compositions of the present invention will be non toxic or biocompatible.

The compositions of the present invention may additionally comprise one or more adjunct ingredients for instance pharmaceutical drugs or skin care agents. For example compositions of the invention may include adjuvants such as salts buffering agents diluents excipients chelating agents fillers drying agents antioxidants antimicrobials preservatives binding agents bulking agents silicas solubilizers or stabilizers. Non limiting examples include species such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose kaolin calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as corn starch or algenic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc time delay materials such as glycerol monostearate or glycerol distearate suspending agents such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone dispersing or wetting agents such as lecithin or other naturally occurring phosphatides thickening agents such as cetyl alcohol or beeswax buffering agents such as acetic acid and salts thereof citric acid and salts thereof boric acid and salts thereof or phosphoric acid and salts thereof or preservatives such as benzalkonium chloride chlorobutanol parabens or thimerosal. Suitable concentrations can be determined by those of ordinary skill in the art using no more than routine experimentation. Those of ordinary skill in the art will know of other suitable formulation ingredients or will be able to ascertain such using only routine experimentation.

Preparations can include sterile aqueous or nonaqueous solutions suspensions and emulsions which can be isotonic with the blood of the subject in certain embodiments. Examples of nonaqueous solvents are polypropylene glycol polyethylene glycol vegetable oil such as olive oil sesame oil coconut oil arachis oil peanut oil mineral oil organic esters such as ethyl oleate or fixed oils including synthetic mono or di glycerides. Aqueous solvents include water alcoholic aqueous solutions emulsions or suspensions including saline and buffered media. Parenteral vehicles include sodium chloride solution 1 3 butandiol Ringer s dextrose dextrose and sodium chloride lactated Ringer s or fixed oils. Intravenous vehicles include fluid and nutrient replenishers electrolyte replenishers such as those based on Ringer s dextrose and the like. Preservatives and other additives may also be present such as for example antimicrobials antioxidants chelating agents and inert gases and the like. Those of skill in the art can readily determine the various parameters for preparing and formulating the compositions of the invention without resort to undue experimentation.

In another aspect the present invention is directed to a kit including one or more of the compositions discussed herein. A kit as used herein typically defines a package or an assembly including one or more of the compositions of the invention and or other compositions associated with the invention for example as described herein. Each of the compositions of the kit may be provided in liquid form e.g. in solution or in solid form e.g. a dried powder . In certain cases some of the compositions may be constitutable or otherwise processable e.g. to an active form for example by the addition of a suitable solvent or other species which may or may not be provided with the kit. Examples of other compositions or components associated with the invention include but are not limited to solvents surfactants diluents salts buffers chelating agents fillers antioxidants binding agents bulking agents preservatives drying agents antimicrobials needles syringes packaging materials tubes bottles flasks beakers dishes frits filters rings clamps wraps patches containers and the like for example for using administering modifying assembling storing packaging preparing mixing diluting and or preserving the compositions components for a particular use for example to a sample and or a subject.

A kit of the invention may in some cases include instructions in any form that are provided in connection with the compositions of the invention in such a manner that one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that the instructions are to be associated with the compositions of the invention. For instance the instructions may include instructions for the use modification mixing diluting preserving administering assembly storage packaging and or preparation of the composition and or other compositions associated with the kit. In some cases the instructions may also include instructions for the delivery and or administration of the compositions for example for a particular use e.g. to a sample and or a subject. The instructions may be provided in any form recognizable by one of ordinary skill in the art as a suitable vehicle for containing such instructions for example written or published verbal audible e.g. telephonic digital optical visual e.g. videotape DVD etc. or electronic communications including Internet or web based communications provided in any manner.

International Patent Application No. PCT US2012 000151 filed Mar. 17 2012 entitled Topical Nitric Oxide Systems and Methods of Use Thereof by Nicholas V. Perricone et al. is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In addition the following applications each filed on Sep. 19 2012 each by Nicholas V. Perricone are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties Systems and Methods for Treatment of Acne Vulgaris and Other Conditions with a Topical Nitric Oxide Delivery System U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 623 008 Treatment of Skin and Soft Tissue Infection with Nitric Oxide U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 623 010 Methods and Systems for Treatment of Inflammatory Dermatoses with Nitric Oxide U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 623 014 Prevention and Treatment of Cardiovascular Diseases using Systems and Methods for Transdermal Nitric Oxide Delivery U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 623 018 Treatment and Prevention of Learning and Memory Disorders U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 623 022 Methods and Compositions for Muscular or Neuromuscular Diseases U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 622 998 Compositions and Methods for Treatment of Osteoporosis and Other Indications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 623 004 Techniques and Systems for Treatment of Neuropathic Pain and Other Indications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 623 027 and Cancer Treatments and Compositions for Use Thereof U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 622 989 .

Additionally the following U.S. patent applications each filed on Mar. 13 2013 are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties Systems and Methods for Delivery of Peptides U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 402 Treatment of Skin Including Aging Skin to Improve Appearance U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 446 Hair Treatment Systems and Methods Using Peptides and Other Compositions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 488 Skin Tanning Using Peptides and Other Compositions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 518 Topical Systems and Methods for Treating Sexual Dysfunction U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 543 Immune Modulation Using Peptides and Other Compositions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 800 952 Cardiovascular Disease Treatment and Prevention U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 013 Wound Healing Using Topical Systems and Methods U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 061 Peptide Systems and Methods for Metabolic Conditions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 110 Methods and Systems for Treating or Preventing Cancer U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 188 Compositions and Methods for Affecting Mood States U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 081 240 Improvement of Memory or Learning Using Peptide and Other Compositions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 298 and Brain and Neural Treatments Comprising Peptides and Other Compositions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 345 .

The following examples are intended to illustrate certain embodiments of the present invention but do not exemplify the full scope of the invention.

This example illustrates one technique for preparing a composition in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. An accurate amount of a carrier HNC 167 62 see below was introduced into a system. The carrier weight used in these experiments was approximately 250 g and the vessel size was 500 ml. The vessel was equipped with a mechanical stirrer gas inlet and gas outlet and was previously purged with argon for about an hour. The temperature of the carrier was kept at about 25 30 C. NO gas regulated at 5 psi 1 psi is about 6 900 Pa and was then introduced at a controlled rate of about 1 bubble s with continuous stirring. The color consistency and viscosity of the carrier did not appear to change if NO was bubbled for 30 minutes to 2 hours. After 6 hours the weight of the carrier had increased by 0.15 by 12 hours by 0.25 and by 24 hours by 0.56 . These increases in weight were believed to be significant considering the relative small molecular weight of NO versus the carrier. Although there was a slight change in color during the experiment the color changed to slightly more orange IR spectrum analysis of the final product did not show any change versus the initial carrier indicating no noticeable chemical change in the carrier. The carrier also can solidify upon cooling if the carrier is initially a solid at lower temperature. Accordingly this example demonstrates that a composition containing NO can be prepared in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

In this example six experiments were carried out to investigate the interaction of nitric oxide with three carriers HNC 157 62 HNC 157 65 and HNC 157 69 as well as with 1 3 propanediol using experimental conditions similar to that described for Example 1. In addition three experiments were performed to prepare carriers containing 800 ppm and 500 ppm nitric oxide. HNC 157 62 was formed of 65 Phospholipon 90G American Lecithin Company 18 isopropyl palmitate Kraft Chemicals 8 capric caprylic triglycerides RITA Corp. and 9 propanediol Dupont . HNC 157 65 was formed of 65 Phospholipon 90G 13 isopropyl palmitate 14 capric caprylic triglycerides 3 propanediol and 5 dimethyl isosorbide Croda . HNC 157 69 was formed from 65 Phospholipon 90G 16 isopropyl palmitate and 19 capric caprylic triglycerides.

The compositions were generally prepared as follows. Isopropyl palmitate capric caprylic triglyceride propanediol for HNC 157 62 and HNC 157 65 and dimethyl isosorbide for HNC 157 65 were mixed together and warmed to 40 C. Phospholipon 90G was then gradually added to this liquid mixture by mixing it. Phospholipon 90G is typically received as individual pellets and is mixed into the solution until fully dissolved. The mixture was subsequently filtered through a sieve to remove any undissolved Phospholipon 90G.

Accordingly the HNC carriers included 1 3 propanediol Phospholipon 90G isopropyl palmitate capric and or caporic triglycerides and Arlasolve DMI ICI America or Croda . Isopropyl palmitate the capric and or caporic triglycerides and Arlasolve DMI are expected to be chemically inert towards nitric oxide while the literature suggests that 1 2 propanediol and glycerol may be able to react with nitric oxide gas to form mononitrates. Accordingly it would be expected that 1 3 propanediol may also react with NO to form mononitrates 

In addition Phospholipon 90G is derived from soybean and contains esters of unsaturated fatty acids such as oleic linoleic and linolenic acids and thus the unsaturated fatty acid part of Phospholipon 90G would react with nitric oxide to lead to a variety of nitrated products.

Each carrier was taken in a 500 mL three necked flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer gas inlet and a gas outlet. The system was purged with argon for one hour at room temperature 25 C. . Then nitric oxide gas was bubbled into the system. Then nitric oxide gas was bubbled through carrier for stipulated amount of time. The changes in weight and color were noted. The details of individual experiments were as follows.

Experiment 1. The carrier was HNC 157 62. Nitric oxide gas was bubbled for 24 hours at 25 C. The initial weight of carrier was 168.53 g. and the final weight was 169.48 g. The net weight gained was 0.95 g and the percentage weight gain was 0.56 .

Experiment 2. The carrier used was HNC 157 62. Nitric oxide gas was bubbled for 48 hours at 25 C. The initial weight of carrier was 171.31 g. and the final weight was 174.21 g. The net weight gained was 2.90 G and the percentage weight gain was 1.69 .

Experiment 3. In order to differentiate between chemical reaction vs. physical absorption the above reaction mixtures were heated at 55 60 C. for four hours. Minimal loss of weight was observed 200 mg indicating no loss of absorbed nitric oxide gas. However more intense orange color developed during this process indicating some decomposition of the nitrites formed.

Experiment 4. The carrier used was HNC 157 65. Nitric oxide gas was bubbled for 24 hours at 25 C. The initial weight of carrier was 171.66 g. and the final weight was 172.98 g. The net weight gained was 1.32 g and percentage weight gain was 0.77 .

Experiment 5. The carrier used was HNC 157 69 same as HNC 157 62 except it had no 1 3 propanediol . Nitric oxide gas was bubbled for 40 hours at 25 C. The initial weight of carrier was 171.02 g. and the final weight was 171.97 g. The net weight gained was 0.95 g and the percentage weight gain was 0.56 .

Experiment 6. Nitric oxide gas was bubbled through 1 3 propanediol neat for 40 hours at 25 C. The initial weight of the 1 3 propanediol was 178.81 g. and the final weight was 178.97 g. The net weight gained was 0.16 g and the percentage weight gain was 0.09 .

Experiment 7. For preparation of 800 ppm NO the carrier used was HNC 157 62. Nitric oxide gas was bubbled for 2 hours at 25 C. The initial weight of carrier was 238.16 g. and the final weight was 238.35 g. The net weight gained was 0.19 g and the percentage weight gain 0.0798 800 ppm . See entry 5 in Table 1.

Experiment 8. For preparation of 500 ppm NO the carrier used was HNC 157 65. Nitric oxide gas was bubbled for 2 hours at 25 C. The initial weight of carrier was 250.37 g. and the final weight was 250.50 g. The net weight gained was 0.13 g and the percentage weight gain was 0.0519 500 ppm . See entry 6 in Table 1.

Experiment 9. For preparation of 800 ppm NO the carrier used was HNC 157 62. Nitric oxide gas was bubbled for 15 min at 25 C. The initial weight of carrier was 252.24 g. and the final weight was 252.45 g. The net weight gained was 0.21 g and the percentage weight gain 0.083 800 ppm .

These experiments were conducted with carriers the HNC 157 62 HNC 157 65 HNC 157 69 and 1 3 propanediol.

As described above and in Table 1 weight gains ranging from 0.5 to 1.7 were observed when nitric oxide gas was passed through the carriers. In order to determine the nature of interaction between nitric oxide and carrier the carrier was heated after nitric oxide absorption at 60 C. for four hours. Practically no loss of weight was observed which indicated that the nitric oxide gas reacted chemically with the carriers entries 1 4 in Table 1 .

In order to investigate the reactivity of 1 3 propanediol with nitric oxide nitric oxide absorption was studied using a HNC 157 69 which did not contain 1 3 propanediol and b 1 3 propanediol by itself. HNC 157 69 gained 0.95 g or 0.56 weight much lower compared to its 1 3 propanediol containing analog HNC 157 62 which showed 1.69 weight gain entries 2 and 5 of Table 1 . 1 3 propanediol itself surprisingly showed only negligible if any weight gain when NO was passed through it entry 6 in Table 1 . Thus under experimental conditions 1 3 propanediol did not react with nitric oxide.

Two samples were also prepared containing 800 ppm NO from carrier HNC 157 62 and one sample containing 500 ppm NO from carrier HNC 157 65 entries 7 9 in Table 1 . The IR spectra of the carriers did not show any additional bands after the reaction possibly because of low amounts of nitrites and or overlap with the carrier complex bands.

Mass spectral studies of the carrier HNC 157 62 and HNC 157 62 containing NO indicated that there was an increase in the intensity of the peak at m e 104 in NO containing carrier compared to carrier without NO. The peak at m e 104 was believed to be due to choline cation CHNO . Phospholipon 90G may contain some free choline and hence presence of the peak at 104 in the mass spectrum of the carrier was not surprising. However the increase in the amount of choline after passage of NO was somewhat unexpected although it is believed that nitric oxide catalyzes similar dephosphorylation of Phospholipon 90G releasing choline.

In conclusion an increase in weight 0.56 to 1.69 was observed when nitric oxide gas was passed through the carriers. 1 3 propanediol failed to gain any significant weight when nitric oxide was passed through it. HNC 157 69 devoid of 1 3 propanediol gained only 0.56 weight compared to 1.69 by its 1 3 propanediol containing analog HNC 157 62. The mass spectra of HNC 157 62 before and after passing NO indicated that the peak corresponding to choline at m e 104 increased after the passage of NO which suggests that phospholipon 90G may undergo NO catalyzed dephosphorylation.

This example illustrates non invasive blood pressure measurements in mice using a composition in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

Blood pressure in mice may be measured using blood volume changes in the mouse tail. Mice with normal tails no clipping or short were used in this study. Ages varied between 8 weeks and 24 weeks. This procedure uses the CODA non invasive blood pressure system available from Kent Scientific Torrington Conn. Mice weighing approximately 25 grams were restrained in plastic cylindrical housing with a nose come allowing the nose to protrude. Two tail cuffs provided occlusion and measurements. The O cuff provided period occlusion while the VPR cuff provides volume pressure recordings. The occlusion pressure and the recorded pressure were controlled automatically by the computer software.

Each measurement had 10 acclimation cycles and 20 measurement cycles once daily depending on the experimental parameters. The average blood pressure of male mice made over time was 136 88. In this study blood pressure measurements of the control base mice and the test treated mice were made and averaged over a period of three days. The test composition comprised 800 ppm nitric oxide which was applied over the upper back of the animal in a quantity that exceeded 50 mg. The blood pressures were recorded after each application and over 1 hour. The following results were obtained.

This example illustrates capillary blood flow measurements in humans using a composition similar to the ones described in the above examples.

Microcirculation properties of the skin were measured before and after application of a test product with nitric oxide. Measurements were made using a Moor Laser Doppler instrument. Measurements were made at Day 1 before and immediately 5 and 15 minutes after treatment.

The study participants were healthy females aged 30 to 55 years. They were in good health as determined by the medical history and were not taking any prescription medications. The test product was labeled as 800 ppm NO nitric oxide . The study participants had 100 mg of the test product applied in a 2 2 sq. inch area on the forearm.

Laser Doppler was performed to measure increased stimulation of the micro capillary blood flow to skin. The micro circulation of the skin reflects the perfusion of the skin and the underlying tissue. The laser Doppler technique is the standard method to obtain dynamic measurement of capillary blood flow in clinical evaluation. Measurements can be made relatively rapidly and simultaneously at sites. In addition temperature measurements may also be made at the same time.

A Moor Instruments DRT4 Laser Doppler Blood Flow Monitor Devon England was used. The laser Doppler technique measures blood flow in the microcapillaries of the skin that are close to the skin surface and the blood flow in underlying arterioles and venules that help to regulate skin temperature. There are several parameter used to describe blood flow measured by this laser Doppler technique. These measurement parameters are defined by Moor Instruments Inc. and are listed below.

Flux This parameter is related to the product of average speed and concentration of moving red blood cells in the tissue sample volume. It is the parameter most widely reported in Laser Doppler publication.

Conc This parameter gives an indication of the number of moving red blood cells in the tissue sample volume.

Speed This parameter gives an indication of the average speed of red blood cells moving in the tissue sample volume.

Temp This is the probe temperature and where there is good thermal conduction between probe and tissue it reaches tissue temperature.

Because of the nature of blood flow in the capillaries and other small blood vessels absolute flow units such as ml minute cannot be expressed. Therefore arbitrary units are used. Blood flow changes are defined as the percentage change from the baseline of these arbitrary units.

The procedure was as follows. The laser Doppler probe was attached onto the volar forearm. Control untreated skin readings Baseline were obtained for 15 minutes. The test product was then applied in the designated 2 2 sq. inch area and rubbed into the skin. Readings were obtained for 15 minutes.

The areas not used for evaluation include the first 15 seconds after starting data collection. Four 10 second areas in the baseline and test readings at each time point were randomly selected to obtain the mean averages which were then used in further analysis of the data.

The averaged data was compiled from the 4 study participants and the laser Doppler results are provided in . There was a significant difference observed in the control untreated skin and the skin treated with 800 ppm nitric oxide up to 15 minutes after application. The applied nitric oxide had an effect on the micro circulation of the skin at the applied level 100 mg in a 2 2 sq. inch area . The topical test product is capable of passing through the skin and affecting the microcirculation of the skin.

This example illustrates delivery of nitric oxide formulations similar to those discussed herein in humans. In these studies laser Doppler studies were performed on three human female subjects. As discussed below all of the studies showed positive results consistent with a physiological effect of nitric oxide applied to the skin passing through the skin and affecting the capillary circulation. The formulations used produce positive almost immediate results when applied to the skin which in these studies was manifested by vasodilatation of the cutaneous vascular system.

While nitric oxide has many physiological effects the purpose of these studies was to measure physiological effects that would be relatively easy to determine and which would be noninvasive. Laser Doppler was selected for these studies because laser Doppler has a relatively large database that indicates that it is effective in determining an increase in microcirculation i.e. circulation within the capillary bed immediately under the epidermal layer in the skin. Nitric oxide is capable of violating the capillary bed and thus laser Doppler was selected.

The formulation used in these studies contained nitric oxide dispersed in a lipid matrix. The nitric oxide was dispersed in the matrix and does not appear to be dissolved but remained intact i.e. it appeared to diffuse into the skin as a molecule of nitric oxide rather than as atomic components or ions. Nitric oxide is a very rapid acting molecule and these studies used a system that employed laser Doppler with a covered chamber. The formulation was placed into the chamber and then attached to the skin by an adhesive layer on the covering. This provided a stable measuring device as determined by multiple normal evaluations of the capillary blood flow without treatment of nitric oxide.

A known positive control methyl nicotinate was applied to the skin at a concentration of 1 10 in alcohol. There was a rapid response typical of the vasodilator. The vascular dynamics are such that when the blood vessels dilate physical parameters follow Bernoulli s law. This states that as one increases the diameter of a tube containing a liquid to flow will increase but the pressure and the speed of the liquid will decrease. The laser Doppler device accurately measured these parameters.

When nitric oxide was applied to the forearm of three human female subjects it was observed that there was an immediate effect on the blood flow as soon as the formulation was applied. The speed of blood flow decreased and the effects lasted over 15 minutes. There was no erythema and no discomfort to the subjects that was observed.

Thus these studies showed that the nitric oxide in the lipid matrix when applied topically to the forearm was able to penetrate the skin very rapidly and to interact with the underlying tissues. This is evidenced by the observation of vascular dilatation without erythema. Accordingly it can be concluded from these studies that the formulation containing nitric oxide was effective in delivering nitric oxide through the skin in a physiologically active state.

In these studies the participants were healthy females aged 30 to 55 years. They were in good health as determined by the medical history and were not taking any prescription medications. All study participants read and signed the informed consent statement prior to any study procedures being performed.

The test product was labeled as 10 000 ppm NO nitric oxide . The study participants had 100 mg of the test product applied in a closed Hilltop chamber on the forearm.

Laser Doppler was performed to measure increased stimulation of the micro capillary blood flow to skin. The micro circulation of the skin reflected the perfusion of the skin and the underlying tissue. Laser Doppler is a standard method to obtain dynamic measurement of capillary blood flow in clinical evaluation. Measurements can be made relatively rapidly and simultaneously at sites. In addition temperature measurements may also be made at the same time.

A Moor Instruments DRT4 Laser Doppler Blood Flow Monitor Devon England was used in these studies. The laser Doppler technique measured blood flow in the microcapillaries of the skin that are close to the skin surface and the blood flow in underlying arterioles and venules that help to regulate skin temperature. Because of the nature of blood flow in the capillaries and other small blood vessels it is difficult to determine absolute flow units such as ml minute. Therefore arbitrary units were used in these experiments to determine relative changes. Blood flow changes were accordingly defined as the percentage change from the baseline using the arbitrary units.

Data was compiled from the three study participants and the laser Doppler studies and averaged. It observed that there was a significant difference observed in the control untreated skin and the skin treated with 10 000 ppm nitric oxide up to 15 minutes after application. The applied nitric oxide had an effect on the microcirculation of the skin at the applied level 100 mg in a lipid matrix . The formulation was determined to be capable of passing through the skin and affecting the microcirculation of the skin.

This example illustrates a protocol used for determining the amount of nitric oxide released from various compositions of the present invention. The protocol is generally performed as follows 

1 Samples within HNC carriers described herein were maintained at either 4 C. or 20 C. until analyzed.

2 One at a time and before they were opened samples were warmed to 37 C. dry bath in a controlled atmosphere of 1 O. They were opened and 150 microliters was removed and placed into 1.35 mL of PBS pH 7.4 25 C. and equilibrated to 13 micromolar O in a small glass screw cap vial minimizing headspace.

3 The vials were then subjected to 15 s of vortex agitation caps opened and 1 mL quickly removed and immediately injected into a Sievers Nitric Oxide Analyzer reaction chamber containing 4 mL of deionized and distilled HO equilibrated at 0 Oby a Nflow through gas and maintained at 37 C. by flow through water jacket.

4 Peaks were analyzed by comparing values to a standard curve generated by injecting various concentrations of the NO donor 1 hydroxy NNO azoxy L proline PROLI NONOate . To standardize among samples the area under the curve from 0 to 4 min was used for concentration determinations are expressed in moles of NO and have been corrected for the 2 dilutions 50 . As such these values equal moles of NO 150 microliter matrix.

5 The authenticity of NO formation was validated by injecting 50 mM of the NO spin trap 2 4 carboxyphenyl 4 5 dihydro 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1H imidazolyl 1 oxy 3 oxide cPTIO or by injecting sample into the reaction chamber containing 50 mM cPTIO and observing the absence of signal.

6 For each sample the area under the curve from t 0 to t 4 min was calculated for concentration determinations. Calculations represent only the amount of NO released during this 4 min time span and thus do not represent the total amount of NO contained in the volume of matrix assessed 150 microliters . For each vial 3 5 independent determinations were performed this means each injection represents removal of 150 microliters of matrix from the labeled vial dilution in PBS and injection. As such these were completely independent measurements from beginning to end.

Based on these results the compositions tested here appeared to be effective in entrapping nitric oxide gas and are effective in releasing the trapped gas in a measurable and significant way.

This example illustrates techniques for preparing compositions in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Specifically four formulations suitable as peptide and nitric oxide carriers are provided two four phase formulations HNC 156 43 HNC 156 50 and two single phase formulations HNC 156 47 HNC 159 136 .

This formulation was formed of 77.7 water 6.0 Phospholipon 90G American Lecithin Company 0.10 EDTA Na Sigma 0.1 citric acid 5.0 isopropyl palmitate IPP Kraft Chemicals 5.0 Promulgen D Lubrizol 3.0 Arlacel 165 Croda 1.0 cetearyl alcohol 50 50 0.5 Dow Corning Fluid 200 10 CST 0.1 Tocotrienol 50C Carotech 0.5 Optiphen Plus Lotioncrafter and 1.0 Seppitonic M3 Seppic .

Phase 2 IPP Promulgen D Arlacel 165 cetearyl alcohol 50 50 Dow Corning Fluid 200 10 CST Tocotrienol 50C.

This formulation was formed of 78.3 water 10.0 Phospholipon 90G American Lecithin Company 0.10 EDTA Na Sigma 0.2 sodium hyaluronate 1 solution 3.0 isopropyl palmitate IPP Kraft Chemicals 3.0 Promulgen D Lubrizol 4.0 Arlacel 165 Croda 0.7 cetearyl alcohol 50 50 0.5 Optiphen Plus Lotioncrafter and 0.2 dimethylethanolamine DMAE Sigma .

The four phase compositions were generally prepared as follows Phases 1 and 2 were heated to 60 C. added and mixed together then allowed to cool to 48 C. at which point Phase 3 was added and mixed. The mixture was then allowed to cool to 38 C. at which point phase 4 was added and mixed.

This formulation was formed of 47 water 5.0 PEG 200 Sigma 45 Phospholipon 90G American Lecithin Company 1.0 benzyl alcohol and 2.0 ethyl alcohol.

This formulation was formed of 65 Phospholipon 90G American Lecithin Company 18.0 isopropyl palmitate IPP Kraft Chemicals 8 capric caprylic triglycerides RITA Corp. and 9 propanediol Dupont .

Any of the above compositions are effective as carriers for peptides and nitric oxide. For example the TRH peptide was shown to be effectively carried by each of the above formulations at a TRH concentration of 5.0 mg cc.

This example illustrates delivery of nitric oxide formulations to five human subjects using procedures and formulations similar to those discussed in Example 5. Each person served as their own control for the testing. A Moor Instruments Laser Doppler was used to determine circulation. All of these studies showed positive results consistent with a physiological effect of nitric oxide applied to the skin passing through the skin and affecting the capillary circulation. The formulations used produce positive almost immediate results when applied to the skin which in these studies was manifested by vasodilatation of the cutaneous vascular system.

For each subject the following creams were applied a negative control formulation containing no NO 0.010 gram of a 10 000 ppm NO formulation 0.020 gram of a 10 000 ppm NO formulation and a positive control formulation containing 0.1 methyl nicotinate. The formulations were prepared using procedures similar to those discussed in Example 1.

When nitric oxide was applied to the forearm of the subjects it was observed that there was an immediate effect on the blood flow as soon as the formulation was applied. The speed of blood flow decreased and the effects lasted over 15 minutes. There was no erythema and no discomfort to the subjects that was observed.

Data was compiled from the study participants and the laser Doppler studies and averaged. It observed that there was a significant difference observed in the control untreated skin where no detectable vasodilation was observed and the treatments involving 0.010 g of NO 0.020 g of NO and methyl nicotinate. For all three treatments vasodilatation was observed with somewhat greater vasodilatation for the 0.010 g formulation over the 0.02 g formulation. In addition the amount of vasodilatation observed for the 0.01 g formulation of NO was generally similar to the amount of vasodilatation observed for methyl nicotinate.

Accordingly these data demonstrate that NO as applied in a cream to the skin is able to penetrate the skin and affect bloodflow beneath the skin.

While several embodiments of the present invention have been described and illustrated herein those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other means and or structures for performing the functions and or obtaining the results and or one or more of the advantages described herein and each of such variations and or modifications is deemed to be within the scope of the present invention. More generally those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that all parameters dimensions materials and configurations described herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual parameters dimensions materials and or configurations will depend upon the specific application or applications for which the teachings of the present invention is are used. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. It is therefore to be understood that the foregoing embodiments are presented by way of example only and that within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereto the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described and claimed. The present invention is directed to each individual feature system article material kit and or method described herein. In addition any combination of two or more such features systems articles materials kits and or methods if such features systems articles materials kits and or methods are not mutually inconsistent is included within the scope of the present invention.

All definitions as defined and used herein should be understood to control over dictionary definitions definitions in documents incorporated by reference and or ordinary meanings of the defined terms.

The indefinite articles a and an as used herein in the specification and in the claims unless clearly indicated to the contrary should be understood to mean at least one. 

The phrase and or as used herein in the specification and in the claims should be understood to mean either or both of the elements so conjoined i.e. elements that are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Multiple elements listed with and or should be construed in the same fashion i.e. one or more of the elements so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified by the and or clause whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus as a non limiting example a reference to A and or B when used in conjunction with open ended language such as comprising can refer in one embodiment to A only optionally including elements other than B in another embodiment to B only optionally including elements other than A in yet another embodiment to both A and B optionally including other elements etc.

As used herein in the specification and in the claims or should be understood to have the same meaning as and or as defined above. For example when separating items in a list or or and or shall be interpreted as being inclusive i.e. the inclusion of at least one but also including more than one of a number or list of elements and optionally additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary such as only one of or exactly one of or when used in the claims consisting of will refer to the inclusion of exactly one element of a number or list of elements. In general the term or as used herein shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives i.e. one or the other but not both when preceded by terms of exclusivity such as either one of only one of or exactly one of. Consisting essentially of when used in the claims shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law.

As used herein in the specification and in the claims the phrase at least one in reference to a list of one or more elements should be understood to mean at least one element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements but not necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the list of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements. This definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase at least one refers whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus as a non limiting example at least one of A and B or equivalently at least one of A or B or equivalently at least one of A and or B can refer in one embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one A with no B present and optionally including elements other than B in another embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one B with no A present and optionally including elements other than A in yet another embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one A and at least one optionally including more than one B and optionally including other elements etc.

It should also be understood that unless clearly indicated to the contrary in any methods claimed herein that include more than one step or act the order of the steps or acts of the method is not necessarily limited to the order in which the steps or acts of the method are recited.

In the claims as well as in the specification above all transitional phrases such as comprising including carrying having containing involving holding composed of and the like are to be understood to be open ended i.e. to mean including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases consisting of and consisting essentially of shall be closed or semi closed transitional phrases respectively as set forth in the United States Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures Section 2111.03.

