---

title: Armrest assembly
abstract: An adjustable armrest for a chair is disclosed herein and comprises an assembly of a mounting plate, a support column, an anti-rotation feature, and two arms. The adjustable armrest's mounting plate is positionable laterally and rotationally about the support column when the anti-rotation feature is disengaged, and is restrained when the anti-rotation feature is engaged. The anti-rotation feature restrains the position of the mounting plate by restraining the rotation of the two arms and is preferably controlled via an actuator button.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09320360&OS=09320360&RS=09320360
owner: 
number: 09320360
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20131210
---
This application is a non provisional application claiming priority to an earlier filed U.S. provisional patent application entitled ARM REST ASSEMBLY filed Dec. 14 2012 and assigned Ser. No. 61 737 733 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to armrests for chairs and more specifically to adjustable armrests for chairs.

Office chairs are a common fixture in today s office environment providing ergonomically positioned support surfaces which allow their users to remain seated for extended periods of time. It is desirable that office chairs include adjustable features such as adjustable seating height and adjustable lumbar support which may be positioned to suit an individual user. However today s office chairs have armrests which lack the desired level of adjustability. Armrests found in the prior art offer limited forms of adjustment often through complex mechanisms requiring separate releases for each individual motion.

The invention described herein solves these disadvantages providing an adjustable armrest assembly which is positionable in three or more degrees of freedom yet also features a retention mechanism for stability. The invention comprises a fore aft restraint system and an anti rotation feature preferably controlled by a single actuator button. The armrest may be freely repositioned when the actuator button is depressed yet locks into position when the button is released. The inventive design also reduces the number of assembly components to a minimum thus reducing the manufacturing costs the assembly complexity and the number of potential component failure modes.

In one embodiment of the invention the adjustable arm rest for a chair comprises a support column a first arm and a second arm wherein both arms are pivotally attached to said support column. The first arm and second arms are also pivotally attached to a mounting plate. A positionable anti rotation feature is also fitted to the support column and is positionable between an engaged configuration and a non engaged configuration. When the anti rotation feature is placed into the engaged configuration rotation of the first and second arms is restrained. When the anti rotation feature is placed into the non engaged configuration the first and second arms are allowed to rotate.

In a second embodiment of the invention the adjustable arm rest for a chair comprises a socket arm having a base an arm member attached to the base and a pivot attachment pivotally connected to the arm member. The assembly also includes a pin arm having a base an arm member attached to the base a main shaft extending away from the pin arm s base and a pivot attachment pivotally attached to the arm member. Both arms are pivotally attached to a support column using their respective bases and are pivotally attached to a slot in a mounting plate using the aforementioned pivot attachments wherein the pivot attachments may pivot and slide along the slot in the mounting plate.

Included in the support column is a first epicyclic gearset comprising a first planetary gear a first sun gear located on a portion of the socket arm s base and a first annulus gear. A second epicyclic gearset is also included in the support column comprising a second planetary gear a second sun gear located on a portion of said pin arm s main shaft and a second annulus gear. An anti rotation feature is also included and is positionable between an engaged configuration and a non engaged configuration using an actuator button. When the anti rotation feature is placed into the engaged configuration the rotation of said pin arm and said socket arm is restrained. When said anti rotation feature is placed into the non engaged configuration said pin arm and said socket arm are allowed to rotate.

In still another embodiment of the invention the adjustable arm rest for a chair comprises the components from the second embodiment of the invention but also includes an aperture placed through at least one of the pivot attachments a torque bar comprising at least one frictional face and an arm gear which is pivotally mounted to the base portion of the mounting plate or to an optional cover plate fitted over the mounting plate. Similar to the second embodiment the actuator button controls the anti rotation feature which arrests or allows the rotation of the pin arm and socket arm about the support column. However in this embodiment the actuator button also controls the engagement of a fore aft restrain system. In this embodiment the actuator button causes the arm gear to position the torque bar between a restrained and unrestrained configuration. When the torque bar is in the restrained configuration the torque bar engages the pivot attachment s aperture arresting motion of at least one pivot attachment along the slot in the mounting plate. When the torque bar is placed into the unrestrained configuration the torque bar disengages from the aperture of the pivot attachment allowing both pivot attachments to move along said slot. Thus in this embodiment the actuator button controls the rotation of the mounting plate about the support column the lateral motion of the mounting plate side to side and the fore aft motion of the armrest assembly along the slot. This improvement allows the armrest assembly to become positionable in at least three degrees of freedom when the actuator button is positioned in a first orientation and causes the armrest assembly to be restrained in the same degrees of freedom when the actuator button is placed into a second orientation.

For purposes of the following description the terms upper positive vertical lower negative vertical fore aft clockwise counterclockwise lateral left lateral right and derivatives of such terms shall relate to the invention as oriented in which is its Neutral orientation i.e. . However it is to be understood that the invention may assume various alternative orientations and configuration except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the device illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments of the inventive concepts described herein. Specific dimensions and other physical characteristics relating to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting unless expressly stated otherwise. Further the materials described herein are merely exemplary materials suitable for use with the invention and are not intended to be limiting. Hence the materials described herein may be substituted with any other suitable material such as ferrous or non ferrous metals or alternate plastic compositions including combinations of the above such as plastic components having metallic inserts.

An embodiment of a chair is shown in and comprises a frame a seating surface a chair back an armrest support and an adjustable armrest assembly . The armrest support is attached to the chair s frame and is adapted to receive the adjustable armrest assembly . The armrest support may additionally contain a vertical height retention mechanism not shown which controls the elevation of the adjustable armrest assembly relative to the seating surface .

One form of the adjustable armrest assembly is shown in in cross section in and in an exploded assembly view in . This assembly comprises a lower mechanism and an upper mechanism working in conjunction to allow a user of the adjustable armrest assembly to position the assembly in at least two and preferably three degrees of freedom. If a vertical height retention mechanism is also included in the armrest support the adjustable armrest assembly will also operate this mechanism allowing the assembly to be adjustable in at least four degrees of freedom. Further the assembly may be configured to retain its position thereby improving the ergonomics of the armrest assembly over that of the prior art.

In the embodiment shown in the lower mechanism is further comprised of a support column a socket arm a pin arm an epicyclic gearset an anti rotation feature an actuator button and a cable assembly . The upper mechanism comprises a mounting plate an optional fore aft retention system and a cover . The engagement of the lower mechanism s anti rotation feature and the upper mechanism s fore aft retention system are preferably controlled through the position of the lower mechanism s actuator button . When the actuator button is depressed the anti rotation feature disengages and frees the epicyclic gearset . This in turn allows lateral movement left and right as well as rotation clockwise and counterclockwise. Additionally depression of the actuator button releases the optional fore aft restraint system which allows for movement of the upper mechanism both fore and aft.

Epicyclic gears or planetary gears are a system of gears comprising one or more planet gears revolving about a central or sun gear. Epicyclic gearing systems may also incorporate the use of an outer ring gear or annulus which meshes with the planet gears and creates a gearing ratio between the sun the planets and annulus. In many epicyclic gearsets the planet gears are permitted to revolve about the sun gear and are spaced equidistantly from one another by a planetary carrier which may also rotate about the sun. In the first embodiment depicted in the planetary carrier is held stationary allowing the motion of the sun gear to be transmitted through the planetary gears to the annulus. In this embodiment the axes of all gears are depicted as being vertically parallel however they may also be placed at an angle by introducing a bevel to the gears. Further the sun planet carrier and annuli s central axes are depicted as being coaxial though they do not necessarily need to be. Also it is further anticipated that the system may include complex planetary gear arrangements having one or more additional planet gears in contact with one other e.g. sun planet planet annulus further modifying the gearing ratio.

In the embodiment of the invention shown in through and best shown in a planetary carrier is fixed in position inside the support column preventing the individual planet gears from orbiting the sun gears . This planetary carrier separates the upper and lower planetary gearsets . In this version of the system the motion of the sun gears is transmitted through the set of planetary gears and into the annulus gears . Since the planetary carrier is fixed if any other component of this system is further restrained the motion of the remaining components is arrested. Thus motion in the epicyclic gear set can be controlled by applying a device with an anti rotation feature against any of the surfaces of the epicyclic gear set arresting its rotation. However the force necessary to restrain the rotational motion varies according to the force s input location on the epicyclic gearset and the elements which are restrained. Therefore concerning rotation of the sun gears it is preferred to restrain motion of the annulus in order to obtain the maximum mechanical advantage of the system. The preferred form of the anti rotation feature is a set of gear teeth which engage the toothed surfaces of the gearset and preferably the annuli . This engagement is best shown in .

In the embodiment shown in the adjustable armrest assembly has two rotational members pin arm and socket arm . The epicyclic gearset is preferably comprised of two separate gearsets an upper deck and a lower deck . Each deck corresponds to the motion of one of the arms . Accordingly the lower deck comprises a lower annulus at least one lower planet and a lower sun gear located on the pin arm . The upper deck comprises an upper annulus at least one upper planet and an upper sun gear located on the socket arm . The position of the lower planets are constrained by their placement in the support column and by the fixed planetary carrier while the upper planets are constrained by the fixed planetary carrier and the lower surface of the socket arm . In the preferred form of this embodiment each deck comprises three planetary gears of equal size spaced equidistantly from one another each engaging their respective annuli and their respective sun gear .

One embodiment of the support column best shown in comprises a central through hole having a retention lip sized to receive and retain the pin arm s main shaft . As shown in the column further has a first counterbore creating a carrier support surface . Additional cutouts are placed into the carrier support surface and include one or more planetary gear recesses . An annulus groove is also added preferably concentric with the through hole . Each of the cutouts is sized to accommodate their respective component of the lower deck of the epicyclic gearset . A second larger counterbore is then placed above the first counterbore and is sized to receive the upper annulus from the upper deck .

In a preferred form of the support column the second counterbore is preferably located concentric to both the first counterbore and the through hole . The second counterbore is preferably of sufficient depth to allow the entirety of the upper annulus to fit flush to or beneath the top surface of the column. See . An actuator button cutout is then placed into the support column so that it intersects a portion of the first and second counterbore and passes to an outside surface of the support column. This allows a button and an anti rotation feature to be placed into the actuator button cutout and access a portion of the upper and lower annuli . In the preferred form the actuator button is attached to and operates the anti rotation feature .

A cable retention cutout may also be placed into the support column preferably adjacent to the central hole . This cable retention cutout allows one or more cable retention features such as a cable housing to be installed. The cable housing is then used to organize and retain the outer jacket of an associated push pull cable assembly and may include metal guides to prevent the cable from abrading the support column . In the embodiment of the invention shown in the cable housing is inserted into a slot shaped cutout in the support column which is sized to allow the cable housing only to be inserted in a vertical direction. A snap locking feature See is included on the base of the cable housing so that when the cable housing is fully inserted in the support column it will become anchored into place. A preferred material for the support column is a 30 glass filled Nylon 6 however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for sufficient rigidity. A preferred material for the cable housing is a 30 glass filled Nylon 6 however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for a one time deflection of the snap lock feature .

The inner member of the cable assembly is then attached to a cable button wheel which is installed into another recess in the support column . The button wheel is permitted to pivot within the support column and engages the button via a lever arm fitted to a receiving window in the button . See . The cable assembly s inner member is attached to the cable button wheel via a cable attachment feature See . This allows the inward motion of the button to create a tension on the inner member of the cable assembly which is then routed through the cable housing to operate other mechanisms within the arm rest assembly including but not limited to the optional vertical adjustment and optional fore aft retention systems detailed further herein. This allows an inward motion or push of the button to actuate the mechanisms. However the inner member of the cable assembly could be attached directly to the button allowing the button to operate when placed under tension pulled . In this instance the button may be replaced with a lever. A preferred material for the cable button wheel and the actuator button is a 30 glass filled Nylon 6 however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for sufficient rigidity.

Starting in the lower planetary gearset and lower annulus are fitted to the support column and a fixed planetary carrier is then placed atop the planetary gears retaining their position. In one preferred form of the invention shown in the fixed planetary carrier is placed adjacent to the carrier support surface and is anchored in the support column through one or more retention features or via a press fit. The planetary carrier further comprises one or more axle holes placed through its face which are sized to receive and position the planetary gears by engaging an axle pin on each planet . These axle holes are best shown in and aid in the positional retention of the planets in the upper deck preventing the upper planetary gears from rotating about the upper sun gear . Planetary gear support walls may also be used to assist with the retention of the planetary gears and can act as a fail safe should the planetary gear s axle pins fail. Further this arrangement allows for the use of a common planetary gear design in both the upper and lower decks . A preferred material for annuli and the planetary gearsets are acetal plastic while the planetary carrier is preferably constructed of polypropylene. Any other suitable material may also be chosen though a minimal amount of friction between the components is preferred.

Following installation of the lower planetary gearset an anti rotation feature is then fitted to the support column along with an actuator button . One embodiment of the anti rotation feature is shown in as a set of gear teeth attached to an end of the actuator button . This anti rotation feature engages one or more of the epicyclic gearset s gears and prevents their rotation. In one preferred form of the invention the anti rotation feature engages both the upper annulus and the lower annulus preventing the rotation of the gears in the upper deck and lower deck simultaneously. See . In this embodiment the anti rotation feature is shown attached to the actuator button and is biased by a spring through the cable assembly to cause the anti rotation feature to remain engaged with the epicyclic gearset when the button is released. Similarly when the actuator button is depressed and the force of the return spring is overcome the anti rotation feature disengages from the epicyclic gearset allowing the gearset to rotate. A preferred material for the actuator button is a 30 glass filled Nylon 6 however any other suitable material may be chosen which is sufficiently rigid.

Once the actuator button and anti rotation feature are installed the upper planetary gears and the upper annulus are installed thereafter forming the upper planetary gearset as is shown in . In one preferred form of the invention the upper planetary gear s axle pins are installed into the through axle holes in the fixed planetary carrier . The upper planetary gearset is then retained in position by capturing it between the fixed planetary carrier and the lower surface of the socket arm .

As shown in the socket arm comprises a base portion which is preferably cylindrical in shape. In a preferred form of the invention the socket arm s base has an upper sun gear molded into its outer circumference and has a through hole sized to receive the pin arm s main shaft . The socket arm further comprises a socket arm member attached to the base on a first end and terminating in a pivot attachment mounting feature such as a through hole or a slot not shown located on a second opposite end . Structural ribs and material saving cutouts may also be included in the design to save on manufacturing costs. The socket arm is then fitted to the support column wherein the upper sun gear engages the upper planetary gears . A preferred material for the socket arm is a 30 glass filled Nylon however any other suitable material may be chosen which is sufficiently rigid.

As shown in the pin arm has a base portion and a main shaft extending normal perpendicular to the base portion wherein the main shaft terminates in a retention feature such as a snap lock . The base portion is preferably cylindrical and further comprises a lower sun gear . The pin arm also has a pin arm member attached to the base portion on a first end and terminating in a pivot attachment mounting feature such as a through hole or slot not shown located on a second opposite end . In one preferred embodiment of the invention the pin arm s base portion and main shaft have a through hole placed through the component allowing for one or more cable assemblies to pass from the lower mechanism through the pin arm into the upper mechanism . A preferred material for the pin arm is a 20 glass filled polypropylene however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for a one time deformation of the main shaft retention feature during assembly.

The construction and orientation of the gears used in the arm rest assembly including those in both the lower mechanism and upper mechanisms may be of any type or sort known to the industry at any pitch and at any angle which is able to function in the assembly as described. These gear types include but are not limited to spur helical double helical bevel spiral hypoid crown worm epicyclic cage rack and pinion harmonic and sun and planet gears. However any other suitable material or gear style may be chosen which allows for sufficient rigidity and proper non binding operation. To prevent binding and allow for smooth motion the moving components of the armrest assembly may also be lubricated preferably with a paraffin and hydrogenated mineral oil mixture such as Door Ease manufactured by AGS Inc. so long as care is taken to prevent lubricant from touching items described as frictional faces.

An alternate form of the lower mechanism modifies the system above by removing the epicyclic gearsets entirely and directly couples an alternate anti rotation system with the cylindrical surfaces of the pin arm and or socket arm . In this form of the invention the anti rotation system may include an actuator button which directly interfaces with the sun gear on the pin arm or socket arm or may include an anti rotation mechanism driven by the cable assembly . Such anti rotation mechanisms include but are not limited to band brakes drum brakes disc brakes and inclined planes wedges all of which are suitable to prevent rotation of the pin arm and socket arm within the support column . This alternate anti rotation system in turn fully controls the rotation and lateral displacement of the upper mechanism once it is attached to the pin arm and socket arm .

One form of an upper mechanism for use with an adjustable armrest assembly is shown in and preferably comprises a mounting plate and a cover with a soft outer coating . The form of the mounting plate is shown in and comprises a base portion at least one slot through the base portion and an optional outer wall attached to the base portion . In a preferred form the outer wall is located at the periphery of the mounting plate and further contains a cover retention feature . The mounting plate in further includes a hole placed through the base portion preferably located above the through hole in the pin arm when assembled and is sized to prevent the cable assembly from becoming pinched between the base portion of the mounting plate and the pin arm . A preferred material for the mounting plate is a 20 glass filled polypropylene however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for sufficient rigidity and for assembly with the cover .

One form of the cover is shown in and depicts an optional soft covering such as reaction injection molded foam overmolded onto the upper surface of the cover . The cover element represents the surface presented to the user s arm when used with a chair and it is preferred that this surface is as comfortable as possible.

The form of the cover shown in comprises a lower surface having a plurality of attached sidewalls located at its periphery which are sized to fit over the mounting plate and attached outer walls if included . The cover s side walls may also contain an optional mounting plate retention feature . A preferred material for the cover is a 30 glass filled Nylon 6 however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for sufficient rigidity and allows for assembly with the mounting plate .

The first embodiment of the upper mechanism shown in is attached to the lower mechanism by passing a first fastener through the mounting plate and into a first arm or of the lower mechanism and then passing a second fastener through the mounting plate and into a second arm or . If the pin arm and socket arm members contain slots the mounting plate may simply contain thru holes not shown for mounting the fasteners. In one preferred form of the invention shown in the arms have through holes and the fastener may be passed through a slot in the mounting plate . The preferred fastener for attaching the arms should allow the arms to freely pivot on the mounting plate while allowing at least the first fastener to traverse along the length of a slot either in the arm member or in the mounting plate . This allows the pin arm and socket arm of the lower mechanism to rotate through their full range of motion in the lower mechanism while pivotally attached to the mounting plate . In turn this allows the upper mechanism to move laterally and rotate about the support column when the lower mechanism s anti rotation feature is disengaged. See . 

In another preferred form of the invention the second fastener may also be placed into a slot either in the arm member or in the mounting plate instead of into a hole. This modification utilizes two fasteners both placed into a slot allowing the entire upper mechanism to move in the fore and aft directions along the direction of the slot . However without restraint the upper mechanism will freely slide in the fore aft direction along the orientation of the slot such as slot in the mounting plate . Since this motion may not always be desirable an additional fore aft restraint system may be added to the mounting plate or arms in order to restrain the motion of at least one of the fasteners along the slot thereby restraining the entire upper mechanism when the fore aft restraint is engaged.

A first preferred embodiment of the fore aft restraint system is shown in and includes two specialized fasteners called pivot attachments . In this embodiment each pivot attachment is placed through a slot in the mounting plate and pivotally fastens the mounting plate to the pin arm and socket arm of the lower mechanism . A preferred material for the pivot attachment is a 20 glass filled polypropylene however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for sufficient rigidity and for assembly with the arms . The embodiment of the armrest assembly shown used in allows for the pivot attachments to be pre installed to the pin arm and socket arm thereby aiding the assembly and attachment of the upper mechanism to the lower mechanism . If pre installation is desired the pivot attachments may be attached to the arms via an installation window located at the distal end of each arm See . This allows the pivot attachment to be passed through the installation window located in the arm member and restrained to the arms via a set of pivot locks which serve to couple the pivot attachments to the arms thereby preventing any translation while allowing them to rotate in at least one direction. If preassembly is not desired the pivot attachments may be snap locked clipped pinned bolted or threaded into the pin arm and socket arm by any known attachment method so long as the pivot attachments are fastened to the arms in a manner that allows the arms to freely rotate.

Once the pivot attachments are passed through the mounting plate and attached to the arms the upper mechanism becomes mechanically coupled to lower mechanism via the mounting plate . If one pivot attachment is placed through a through hole in the mounting plate and a second pivot is placed through a slot in the mounting plate the upper mechanism will be limited to only lateral and rotation motions. If however both pivot attachments are located in one or more preferably parallel slots the pivot attachments may then freely transit along the slots . In turn this allows the mounting plate and attached cover to freely move in the direction along the slot fore aft direction adding an additional form of adjustability. However this new motion along the slot must be limited by restraining at least one of the pivot attachments with a braking system .

A first form of the braking system for use in restraining a pivot attachment from moving along the slot is created by placing a torque bar preferably of a non circular shape parallel to the slot and through an aperture located in the face of the pivot attachment . The pivot attachment s aperture is preferably sized to create a clearance fit including loose running to sliding fits between the torque bar and the aperture in a first orientation and a frictional or interference fit in a second orientation. Thus when the torque bar is placed in the first orientation the upper mechanism may freely move along the direction of the slot and when in the second orientation the upper mechanism s motion along the slot is restrained.

A first implementation of the first braking system is shown in and includes two torque bars two pivot attachments two torque gears an arm gear a return spring a cable assembly and a cable wheel . In this embodiment the cable actuates the arm gear which in turn engages the two torque gears each connected to a rectangular shaped torque bar which further engages the apertures of the pivot attachments as they are rotated.

The torque bars are preferably constructed of rough textured or unpolished steel in a non circular shape however any suitable material or shape may be chosen which allows for the torque bar to engage and restrain the pivot attachment in at least one orientation. The construction or shape of the torque bar should create at least one frictional face which is used to maximize the frictional coefficient between the torque bar and a portion of a wall created by the pivot attachment s aperture in at least one orientation. The pivot attachment s aperture is preferably constructed of a brass insert molded into the plastic pivot attachment. Brass is a preferred material for the aperture due to the high coefficient of friction between the materials in the pivot attachment s aperture brass and the torque bar s frictional face preferably steel .

A return spring is included in the preferred form of the first system in order to bias the system into an engaged configuration See wherein the torque bars engage the pivot attachments to prevent them from traversing along the slot in the mounting plate . The cable assembly in combination with the cable wheel allows a force applied at a remote location to actuate the arm gear causing it to rotate into a disengaged configuration and causing the torque bars to rotate and disengage from the pivot s aperture allowing the pivot attachments to traverse along the slot in the mounting plate .

In order to support and actuate the torque bars a swivel and a torque gear are fitted to each torque bar. The torque gear is positioned so that it interfaces with the arm gear and is supported by a torque gear support located on the mounting plate . A torque gear retention feature is included in the mounting plate to capture the torque gear and prevent its translation while freely allowing it to rotate See . The swivel is positioned on the side opposite the arm gear and is supported by a swivel support block . This swivel support block is shown in and allows the torque bar to freely rotate. Retention features located in the cover See mate with their corresponding lower supports and assist with the retention of the swivel and torque gear when the cover is assembled to the mounting plate . A preferred material for the torque gear and swivel are 30 glass filled Nylon 6 however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for sufficient rigidity.

The mounting plate is adapted to fit the arm gear by placing a hole in its base preferably in a central location. An arm gear support wall is then added at the periphery of the hole . This arm gear support wall engages the bottom of the arm gear supports the gear preventing translation and minimizes the rotational friction between the arm gear and the mounting plate . An opening is placed in the arm gear support wall for the cable assembly to be passed from the lower mechanism up through the hole in the mounting plate and through the opening in the support wall . The cable assembly is so routed and its outer jacket is anchored to a cable retention feature located on the mounting plate. A cable wheel is then fitted to the mounting plate in order to reverse the direction of the cable s inner member allowing it to be attached to the arm gear . An optional set of arm gear limiters may also be installed to limit the rotational travel of the arm gear . In a preferred embodiment of the upper mechanism the arm gear and torque gears are preferably constructed of a 30 glass filled Nylon 6 and are formed as bevel gears.

The arm gear is preferably retained on the mounting plate by several arm gear retention features of a snap lock variety. These arm gear retention features are located at the periphery of the hole and allow the gear to rotate freely but prevent the arm gear from lifting away from the plate vertically. These features also prevent the torque gear s teeth from slipping under load and ensure that the arm gear s teeth fully engage the teeth of the torque gears . The arm gear also has an inner cable mounting attachment which is preferably placed radially as far as possible from the center of the gear in order to maximize the torque transmitted to the torque bar . A return spring is also attached preferably on the opposite side of the arm gear to assist the upper mechanism s fore aft restraint to return to an engaged configuration . Should the cable assembly also connect to the actuator button the return spring may provide a restorative force to the actuator button . This restorative force may also be used to assist with the engagement of the anti rotation feature of the lower mechanism if the operation of the anti rotation feature is associated with the position of the actuator button . In this case it is desirable that the arm gear be sized diametrically so that the range of motion of the inner member of the cable assembly necessary to disengage the torque bar from the pivot is the same as that needed to disengage the anti rotation feature from the lower mechanism when the button is depressed. Alternately instead of diametrically re sizing the arm gear other mechanical means known in the art may be utilized to synchronize these two mechanisms. One such method includes a tensioner and pulley system not shown added to the cable assembly .

The first form of the fore aft restraint system is assembled by passing the cable assembly up through the hole in the mounting plate through the space in the support wall wherein its outer jacket is anchored to a cable retention feature located on the mounting plate. The cable wheel is then fitted to the mounting plate and the cable s inner member is routed over the wheel.

The lower mechanism s pivot attachments are rotated to align with the slot in the mounting plate and are passed through the slot. The pivot attachments are then rotated so that their aperture aligns with the slot in the mounting plate . The torque gears are then fitted to the torque gear support blocks and the torque bars are passed through the aperture of the pivot attachments . One end of the torque bar is then assembled with the torque gear and the other end of the torque bar is fitted with a swivel which is placed into the swivel support .

The arm gear is then fitted to the mounting plate aligned with the hole and support wall and pressed onto the plate. When the arm gear is pressed onto the mounting plate the arm gear retention features snap onto the arm gear holding the arm gear s teeth engaged with the teeth of the torque gear . The inner member of the cable is then attached to the arm gear s inner cable mounting attachment and the return spring is attached to the arm gear to bias the system into the engaged configuration. See . The cover is then fitted to the mounting plate completing the first embodiment of the upper mechanism .

A second preferred form the fore aft restraint system is shown in and modifies the first preferred fore aft restraint system by removing the arm gear torque gear and swivel and replacing them with a lever arm an alternate torque gear and a rotational support . In this embodiment the arm gear is replaced by two lever arms each of which engages alternate torque gear causing their respective torque bars to rotate and engage the aperture in the pivot attachment restraining the pivot attachment s motion along the slot in the mounting plate .

The lever arm preferably contains a base portion and an arm section having a cable mounting feature on its distal end . The lever arm is pivotally mounted to the mounting plate preferably with its rotational center located parallel with the slot . The cable assembly is then attached by taking the inner member s first end and fitting it with an alternate return spring . The first end of the inner member of the cable assembly is then attached to the lever arm s cable mounting feature as shown in . The other end of the cable See. is then actuated by the button in a manner that uses the alternate return spring to bias the anti rotation feature into an engaged configuration with the annuli . A preferred method of interaction with the button is via a cable button wheel . A preferred material for the lever arm is a 30 glass filled Nylon 6 however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for sufficient rigidity.

The lever arm comprises gear teeth on the base portion which mates with the teeth of an adjacent alternate torque gear . The alternate torque gear is rotationally mounted to the mounting plate and is preferably mounted in a slot in the outer wall of the mounting plate . The alternate torque gear is retained in place by a slot engaging feature in the cover which presses the alternate torque gear into the slot . In turn the alternate torque gear retains the lever arm in place on the mounting plate . A preferred material for the alternate torque gear is a 30 glass filled Nylon 6 however any other suitable material may be chosen which allows for sufficient rigidity.

Following installation of the lever arm the pivot attachments are then installed onto the pin arm and socket arm preferably at their distal ends. The pivot attachment is then placed through the mounting plate s slot attaching the mounting plate to the lower mechanism . Once the pivot attachment is in place a rectangular shaped torque bar is passed through an aperture in the pivot attachment and then fitted to the alternate torque gear . The pivot attachment s aperture is preferably sized to create an open or slip fit between the torque bar and the aperture in one orientation and a frictional or interference fit in another orientation. A rotational support or alternate swivel is then installed onto the opposite end of the torque bar . As shown in the alternate swivel may be a second alternate torque gear in order to commonize the assembly s components. The alternate swivel is supported by an end support located on the mounting plate and is captured by a mating support on the upper cover .

In the second preferred form of the braking system the torque bar is installed by rotating the lever arm away from the outer wall compressing the alternate return spring . When released the lever arm returns to its home position adjacent to the outer wall rotating the alternate torque gear and torque bar . This rotation creates a frictional engagement between the torque bar s frictional face and the aperture thereby restricting the pivot attachment s lateral motion along the slot .

Once assembled the second preferred form of the fore aft restraint system is operated as shown in by causing the lever arm to rotate away from the outer wall . This causes a rotation in the alternate torque gear as well as the attached torque bar . When the torque bar is aligned with the aperture the pivot attachment may freely traverse along the slot however when the lever arm returns to a position adjacent to the outer wall in the mounting plate the linear position of the pivot attachment is restrained. One method of causing this rotation includes attaching the first end of the inner member of the cable assembly to the lever arm s distal end. The cable assembly then transmits loads placed upon it by the actuator button allowing the button to control the actuation of the fore aft restraint system . The second preferred embodiment of the upper mechanism is designed to present a minimal vertical profile between the mounting plate and the cover thus minimizing the thickness of the upper mechanism while utilizing a lever arm in combination with an alternate torque gear to minimize the amount of force on the actuator button required to disengage the fore aft restraint system .

Alternate restraint systems which may be adapted for use a fore aft restraint system include braking mechanisms which directly interface with the lower mechanism s pivot attachment arresting the motion of the pivot attachment in the slot when it is engaged. One preferred form of a braking system comprises a brake pad mounted to the cover or the mounting plate which directly engages the pivot attachment .

A second form of a braking system utilizes a member having a cam lobed shaped end. This member may be attached to either of the mounting plate the pivot attachment or the cover wherein the camed member pivots and presses against an adjacent structure mounting plate the pivot attachment or the cover arresting the pivot attachment s linear motion via friction.

A third form of a braking system places a rail or rod through the pivot attachment similar to the first and second fore aft restraint systems . The cross sectional shape of this rod or rail is not important however the pivot attachment should be able to freely traverse along the rod in a linear fashion. This rod or rail is then deflected by a cam shaped member forcing the rail or rod to press against the pivot attachment creating friction. This deflection and the resulting friction restrains the pivot attachment s location along the slot . One form of this deflection braking system causes a cam to deflect the rod linearly causing the rod to rub against the pivot attachment s aperture . A second form using a rod having a non circular cross section the deflection of the rod is done torsionally twisting the rod against the opening in the pivot and causing friction between the pivot attachment and the rod. A third embodiment of a deflection restraint system uses a plurality of parallel rods or rails of any cross sectional shape wherein the plurality of rods or rails are deflected to increase the friction between the rods and the pivot attachment . In the multi rod system a cam is preferably located adjacent to the rods forcing at least one rod away from another thereby deflecting more than one rod and multiplying the frictional force applied to the pivot attachment .

A fourth braking system uses a piston and a valve to arrest the motion of the pivot attachment . This system may optionally include a hose and may form a closed circuit. In this instance the pivot attachment is attached to the piston and the cable assembly is attached to the valve. When the valve is open the piston may freely move allowing the pivot attachment to traverse a slot in the mounting plate or in the arms . Compressible fluids such as air may be utilized in this form of the braking system however incompressible fluids such as liquids are preferred. In embodiments utilizing liquids a closed loop system is preferred and may include an optional fluid reservoir. Fluids such as water hydraulic fluid or oil are preferred for use with this form of the invention. Further the system may be modified by removing the aforementioned valve and using a magneto rheological fluid. In this embodiment the cable assembly is used to position a magnet near enough to the piston such that its magnetic field affects the magneto rheological fluid arresting the motion of the piston and consequently the motion of the pivot attachment .

A fifth form of the braking system modifies the arm members by including one or more telescoping members preferably in the form of concentric pistons. In this embodiment the mounting plate need not contain slots as the telescoping members may extend or contact as the arms pivot about the mounting plate and the support column . In this instance the telescoping members may themselves be used as the pistons described in the fourth form of the braking system. Here the valve or magnet is used to restrain the length of the telescoping member arresting the motion of the pivot attachment and consequently the mounting plate .

One method of assembling the preferred forms of the adjustable armrest assembly is by fitting the epicyclic gearset button wheel cable housing having an attached cable assembly and an actuator button into the support column See . The inner member of the cable assembly is then actuated by the actuator button preferably through the use of a cable button wheel . An optional vertical height adjustment cable is passed out the bottom of the support column and attached to the vertical adjustment in the chair s armrest support . The inner member of the cable assembly is then passed upward through the through hole in the socket arm and then the through hole in the pin arm . The socket arm and pin arm are then fitted together and placed into the support column causing each component to nest with their respective planetary gearset as is shown in and in cross section in . The pin arm is then pressed into the support column until the pin arm s main shaft retention feature locks into the column s retention lip . This completes one preferred form of the lower mechanism .

The upper mechanism may be constructed by fitting the pivot attachments to the distal ends of the pin arm and the socket arm . The cable assembly is then passed upwardly through the hole in the mounting plate . The pivot attachments are then passed through the slot in the mounting plate and then rotated 90 degrees retaining the mounting plate to the lower mechanism . The outer jacket of the cable assembly is then affixed to the mounting plate s cable retention feature . Next the chosen fore aft retention system is installed onto the mounting plate and the inner member of the cable assembly is attached to the chosen fore aft retention system. The torque bar is then passed through the pivot attachment s aperture and a torque gear or and swivel or are installed onto the torque bar. The bar assembly is then placed onto the mounting plate and then lastly the cover is installed onto the mounting plate . This completes the upper mechanism and a preferred form of the adjustable armrest assembly .

The principle advantages offered by this invention include manufacturing benefits for the industry as well as ergonomic benefits for the individual user. The inventive design reduces the number of assembly components to a minimum thus reducing the manufacturing costs the assembly complexity and the number of potential failure modes for the component.

The ergonomical advantages exceed that of the prior art because the current invention is positionable in three or more degrees of freedom and position changes are accomplished easily through a single actuator button. In the current invention the fore aft restraint and the anti rotation system disengage when the actuator button is depressed and re engage when the button is released. This allows the inventive assembly to be positionable anywhere among in the following directions Neutral Lateral Left Lateral Right Rotated Clockwise Rotated Counterclockwise Fore Aft . Further these motions can be combined rendering a nearly infinite number of combined positions such as Clockwise and Fore which is shown in . Further the adjustable armrest assembly may even be completely reversed by rotating the upper mechanism more than 180 degrees on the armrest support . Even when the assembly is fully reversed it maintains its lateral and fore aft adjustability such as is shown in . An optional rotational cable de coupler may also be included along the path of the cable assembly should extreme rotations e.g. angles more than 270 degrees be requested of the assembly. This optional rotational decoupler will help to prevent the cables in the cable assembly from kinking as the upper mechanism is rotated.

One advantage of the assembly s extreme reversibility may be enhanced by using a pin arm member and a socket arm member of dissimilar length biasing the fore aft adjustments in one direction. This allows the adjustable armrest assembly to fully accommodate the larger sized individuals by moving the upper mechanism further away from the center of the seating surface in one orientation while still allowing the assembly to accommodating smaller individuals by rotating the assembly 180 degrees extending the fore aft bias toward the center of the seat.

The above description is considered that of the preferred embodiments only. Modifications to the invention will occur to those skilled in the art and those who make use of the invention. Therefore it is understood that the embodiments shown in the drawings and the examples set forth herein are described merely for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention as interpreted according to the principles of patent law including the doctrine of equivalents.

