---

title: System and method for color correction of a microscope image with a built-in calibration slide
abstract: A system and method are disclosed for correcting the color of microscope images for different illuminants. The system includes a microscope having at least one image setting value selector with a plurality of pre-set positions, and an optical train having a distal end and a proximal end and being configured to convey illumination. The optical train is further configured to allow introduction of a calibration slide into the optical train of the microscope at a plurality of possible positions, each position being a conjugate plane of the sample plane, when the sample is in focus. The calibration slide incorporates an integral transmission filter array of known transmission values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09429744&OS=09429744&RS=09429744
owner: DATACOLOR HOLDING AG
number: 09429744
owner_city: Luzern
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20130404
---
The present invention describes a system and method for integrating an image calibration slide into a microscope body. The described system allows for a calibration slide to be automatically inserted into a conjugate field plane of a microscope. As such the system and method of the present invention eliminate the need to manually switch between the calibration elements and the sample back and forth to perform the color calibration. The system and method of the present invention allow for faster measurement greater measurement repeatability and more precise calibration. The calibration slide of the present invention contains similar types of reference colors as the stand alone slide does and is integrated into the microscope at a conjugate plane of the sample plane i.e. one of the planes within the microscope at which an image from the slide is in focus .

Currently digital imaging has allowed for unprecedented levels of collaboration between technicians researchers and scientists. In part this collaboration is due to the relatively inexpensive nature of current digital imaging technology. Image capture devices and associated software platforms combined with improved computer screens and monitors have also allowed for the rapid analysis and review of images where accurate color fidelity is essential. The proliferation of different styles models and technical complexity of digital imaging technology can be readily seen in the digital microscopy market. In the field of digital imaging there are many microscope systems that provide custom digital images. Unfortunately there is no system or method currently available that ensures color accuracy and consistency from one system to another.

Additionally recording images of hard to detail specimens requires diligence. A fortuitous imaging of a sample might not be replicable under subsequent conditions. However once the image is recorded modifying it in image editing suites can alter the desired appearance. Therefore what is needed is the ability to calibrate an image of a sample so as to render the sample in different lighting conditions. Co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 211 875 titled System and Apparatus for the Calibration and Management of Color in Microscope Slides filed on Aug. 17 2011 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety describes the use of color calibrated slides to determine the color values of biological samples under various lighting conditions. However the system described in the 875 Application does not describe embodiments particular to utilizing a conjugate plane of the sample plane to obtain a precise measurement of the calibration slide without altering any of the microscope or camera settings. Likewise U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 594 107 titled System and Apparatus for Color Correction in Transmission microscope Slides filed on Aug. 24 2012 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety describes a calibration and evaluation system of images of slides but does not describe the invention provided herein.

Therefore what is needed is a system and method that provides improved measurement of a calibration slide. In particular the present system and method reduce the likelihood of damaging the calibration slide or obtaining an imprecise calibration measurement.

A system and method are described for correcting the color of microscope images for different illuminants. The invention as described details the use of a microscope having at least one image setting selector used to obtain an image of a sample e.g. a configurable numerical aperture with a plurality of pre set positions and an optical train having a distal end and a proximal end which is configured to convey illumination. In the invention as described the optical train is further configured to allow the introduction of a calibration slide into the optical train of the microscope at a plurality of possible positions each position being a conjugate plane of the sample plane when the sample is in focus. The calibration slide of the present system and method incorporates an integral transmission filter array of known transmission values.

Additionally the described image recording system and method records images of the sample slide and the calibration slide and extracts color value information from the images so as to output a composite image wherein the color values of each pixel have been transformed based on the calibration values.

By way of overview and introduction the present invention concerns a microscope and calibration slide arrangement in which the calibration slide is introduced into a conjugate plane of the optical train of the microscope so as to obtain precise measurements without altering the settings of the microscope or other imaging device. Specifically the present system and method are directed to introducing a calibration slide to a microscope optical train in order to obtain highly precise and reproducible transmission spectra values for use in image calibration or conversion software.

The principles behind the present invention are applicable to and can be used in conjunction with multiple types of microscopes. For example the illustrated arrangement in employs a transmission microscope. However the present system and method are also applicable to a reflectance microscope as illustrated in Furthermore those skilled in the art will recognize that the principles behind the present invention can be used with additional microscope types not disclosed but whose operational principals are understood.

As illustrated in a transmission microscope is a device or apparatus in which the light source and the viewer are on opposite sides of the plane of the slide specimen and in which transmitted light is passed through the specimen. The light is transmitted to an eyepiece or image recording device designed to record images of the sample. When using a transmission microscope those images are for each spatial point the product of the incident illumination of the light source and the transmittance spectrum of the specimen.

In the illustrated arrangement the imaging device is a CCD Charged Coupled Device or CMOS Complementary metal oxide semiconductor having sufficient components to record images to a temporary or permanent storage device. In a specific arrangement the CCD sensor of the imaging device is a frame pixel recording device. In one arrangement the imaging device is configured to record images having at least three 3 independent color channels tri chromatic characteristics .

The imaging device is also configured to transmit recorded images to the computer for analysis or processing. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the data connection between the imaging device and the computer is any standard wired or wireless connection. For example the imaging device and the computer of are connected via a data cable. However in an alternative arrangement of elements the data connection is supplied by a local area network LAN or short range wireless network using protocols such as Wi Fi Bluetooth or RFID.

The imaging device is any device capable of capturing the required spectral data in sufficient detail necessary for the calibration functions to proceed. For example a digital still camera digital motion picture camera portable computer camera desktop computer camera PDA equipped with a camera an imaging device of a smart phone a camera phone a web camera and so on having sufficient resolution for capturing color information are suitable imaging devices. Likewise any device may be used as an imaging device so long as it is capable of capturing optical data through a lens or plurality of lenses and transmitting an image file that includes the captured data. As one non limiting example a digital single lens reflex camera and microscope adaptor form a suitable image capture device.

In the given arrangement of the light source is an incandescent light source such as a halogen based light source. In an alternative arrangement the light source is formed of multiple elements each capable of providing a steady source of specific spectrum illumination such as ultraviolet infrared daylight tungsten light fluorescent light or other specific visible light spectra. Further the light source is positioned such that the reference illuminations emitted by the light sources are incident upon the microscope stage and the slide itself. In an alternative embodiment these light sources are actively filtered so as to produce specific illumination characteristics.

As seen in a selectable calibration slide shown in dashed lines is also used in the present transmission microscope to generate the necessary calibration values. In the illustrated arrangement the calibration slide is not engaged in the optical train and the light emitted from the light source is not incident upon it but can optionally be engaged when the sample slide is removed. In the illustrated arrangement the calibration slide is a composite color filter array of known transmittance colors. The calibration slide when introduced into the optical train is positioned so that it is available to be directly illuminated by the light source See .

As shown in in one arrangement of the calibration slide the included color filter array is a grid . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that other specific geometries of the color calibration arrays are within the scope of the present invention.

In a further arrangement the color filter array of the calibration slide contains a plurality of sections with different transmission spectra necessary to replicate the complete range of transmission spectra likely to appear in the slide image. In the preferred embodiment at least one portion of the array contains achromatic black white and grey elements. In a further preferred embodiment the surfaces of the transmission calibration samples are substantially uniform across the surface of the sample. In this way microscopic magnification of non uniform surface features of the calibration samples is minimized. Thus transmission microscope surfaces permit calibration samples with a greater degree of surface uniformity and hence greater color precision.

The color filter array of the microscope calibration slide is affixed through standard production techniques. For example the color filter array is printed onto the slide substrate by photolithographic printing or other similar techniques. In one arrangement the color filter array contains a plurality of color elements with different transmission spectra that when combined provide a complete coverage of the visible spectrum. While the color filter array is depicted within the center of the calibration slide it is possible to position the color array at any position on the slide substrate that is visible to an imaging device or manual reviewer observing through the eyepiece .

In the described system the specific transmission characteristics such as transmission percentage at each wavelength for a variety of settings of the microscope numerical aperture of each element of the color filter array is known and stored within a database accessible by the computer . The calibration slide is formed of standard optical slide materials that are commercially available for the given purpose. The calibration slide is composed of any suitable material for inclusion with the given microscope type. For example the calibration slide is composed of glass plastics composite materials and other standard transparent materials used for transmission microscopy slide production. The calibration slide is formed of material suitable for photolithography. Such photolithography based slides are composed of materials that are commonly used in the art for photolithography techniques. Alternatively those skilled in the art will appreciate that the array elements can be fused using optical glue to a regular microscope slide.

The calibration slide is configured for easy and safe insertion into and removal from the optical train of the microscope. For example calibration slide is secured within a cartridge or holder not shown that allows the calibration slide to be positioned without physical handling of the calibration slide.

When the sample secured to a sample slide positioned at the specimen plane is in focus there exist several positions along the optical train in which the image of the sample is also in focus. These locations are commonly referred to as conjugate field planes. In the illustrated optical train when the sample under analysis is in sharp focus the Field Stop Diaphragm plane and the intermediate image plane are also in sharp focus

As shown in when a user calibrates the images taken of the sample slide the calibration slide is introduced into the optical train. The calibration slide is inserted into the optical train at one of the conjugate plane locations or such that the light transmitted through the calibration slide is in focus at the eyepiece camera aperture . The image setting values used to obtain the desired sample image are kept static and without adjustment For example the numerical aperture setting value used to obtain the sample image is used without modification to obtain the calibration image. microscope or camera. In the illustrated arrangement the calibration slide is configured with an insertion mechanism that allows the slide to be inserted into the desired conjugate plane. In an alternative arrangement the optical train of the microscope is equipped with a plurality of calibration slide ports that allow the insertion and withdrawal of a transmission slide.

As seen in the transmission calibration slide or the specimen slide is set into the optical path of the transmission microscope. When the calibration slide is inserted into the optical train the specimen object slide is removed from the optical train so as to allow light from the light source to transmit through the calibration slide directly to the eyepiece or image recording device . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that each of the slides can be configured for automatic or manual insertion and retraction. For example the specimen slide and the calibration slide are each positioned on retractable or selectable slide mounts not shown . Upon focusing on the object slide a user manually or via remote control actuates the selection of a slide placing the calibration slide into the optical train. Upon selection of the calibration slide the specimen slide is retracted.

Those skilled in the art will quickly appreciate the potential arrangement of elements in order to accomplish the substitution of an object slide for a calibration slide. For example a plurality of retractable slide mounts connected to a processer executing code therein can be configurable to activate and insert a given slide into the optical train depending on user input. Regardless of the mechanism of selection or substitution the focal planes of the optical train are not altered. As such so long as a calibration slide is placed in a conjugate field as described above the calibration slide remains in focus.

In a further arrangement of the system described the user selects to record an image of a specimen. After the user or computer has set the microscope and image recording settings a computer automatically obtains an accurate color calibration measurement by automatically withdrawing the specimen slide and inserting the calibration slide into one of the conjugate planes. In one arrangement the calibration slide is incorporated into a portion of the optical train that allows the calibration slide to be inserted into the field stop diaphragm conjugate plane . Alternatively the optical train of the present invention is configured to give access at each of the conjugate planes. In this arrangement a user manually inserts the calibration slide or slide housing.

In a further arrangement a selectable mirror is configured for insertion into the optical train. In this arrangement a second optical train is provided with a fixed or selectable calibration slide. Upon activation of the selectable mirror the second optical train provides a sharp focus image of the calibration slide to the imaging device without changing of the settings of the microscope or camera. In this arrangement both optical trains are configured such that the altering of the settings of one optical train is conveyed to the second optical train.

In an alternative arrangement the microscope used in the present system and method is a reflected light microscope. illustrate the an optical train for a reflection microscope. In the illustrated arrangement the calibration slide is a transmission calibration slide as opposed to a reflective calibration slide. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that because light passes through the conjugate planes of the optical train of a reflection microscope after it has been reflected there is no position available for reflecting the light off the calibration slide.

Similar to a transmission microscope the conjugate planes of a reflecting microscope allow for the insertion of the calibration slide wherever a focused image would be obtained if the specimen were in focus. Like the transmission microscope in the reflected microscope the suitable phase conjugate planes are at the field stop diaphragm the specimen plane and the intermediate image plane as well as at the image plane . As shown in when a sample is under analysis the calibration slide is not inserted into the optical train. Once calibration of the image is desired the calibration slide is inserted into one of the conjugate planes of the reflected microscope .

As shown in in a reflection microscope a special reflecting surface is substituted for the test or specimen slide . In the case of a bright field reflected light microscope in which the lighting angle is close to 90 degrees a flat mirror is used as the special reflecting surface in order to counteract optical imperfections of a diffuser that can be accentuated by the 90 degree light angle. In an alternative arrangement in a dark field reflected light microscope in which light is incident from a substantial angle a diffuser such as an opal glass is employed as the special reflecting surface . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that any optical element that returns light to the optical path in the specular direction may be used

In one arrangement the user manually arranges for both the calibration slide and the reflecting surface to be arranged in their proper positions. In an alternative arrangement a computer or computer directed device automatically arranges both the calibration slide and the special reflective surface. For example in one arrangement of a reflected light microscope of the present invention a flat mirror for bright field reflection is automatically positioned within the specimen plane simultaneously with the positioning of the calibration slide. Alternatively a user is informed upon selection of a dark field reflected light microscope action to insert a diffuser into to the specimen plane prior to attempting to obtain an accurate color calibration measurement.

Since the calibration slide is at the conjugate plane of the specimen plane the calibration slide will be automatically focused. No other camera or microscope setting needs to be adjusted as these will invalidate the color calibration. One can then take a picture of the calibration slide and move it out of view and move the specimen slide back for further image capturing. In one arrangement control of the slide position and the color calibration module are integrated into the microscope control software.

The present invention is configured to transmit the transmission color data directly to a local computer system through physical or wireless connections. See . As an alternative embodiment of the present invention it is possible to configure the transmission data such as tristimulus color data for transmission to a remote processing computer system or cloud based computer system . For example it is possible to transmit the calibration values from the imaging site to a local computer system which in turn offloads the processing duties to a cloud based processing appliance. The local computer is further configured to possess a database wherein reference transmission values are stored.

Once the imaging processing has been completed the color corrected image can be sent to the calibrated display device attached to local computer . The present invention can be configured so as to allow display devices such as computer monitors and projection devices to be calibrated through external calibration systems such as Spyder calibration devices or by using color information from the processed images themselves. In an alternative embodiment the color corrected image is sent directly to a printer configured to accept the image file. In such an embodiment a monitor is not necessary. The printer can be any standard or customized printing device in a standard state of calibration.

It is further expected that the computer system is fully capable of connecting to external and internal networks so as to distribute processing tasks or exchange data imbedded within each slide. The computer system can connect to networks and databases using commonly understood programming interfaces and interface modules e.g. Media Server Pro Java Mysql Apache Ruby on Rails and other similar application programming interfaces and database management solutions. The remote analysis system of the present invention is characterized in part by its broad adaptability to user configurations multiple user inputs and hardware configurations.

The remote analysis system can also accessed by way of a web portal e mail or text message. The computing device is capable and configured to receive industry standard telecommunications for data transfer. Furthermore the computing system is capable of parsing telephone e mail and other header data so as to enable a return message to be sent to a user by means of conventional protocols as is commonly known e.g. using the Automatic Number Identification ANI in a telephone call set up or sender address information in an email . The remote analysis system can be connected to in a conventional manner such as by using a web browser program such as Mozilla s Firefox. The web portal offers the ability to transmit data from non networked sources such as digital cameras web camera and digital tape feed.

The present invention also incorporates a methodology for using the system so described to carry out and achieve the function of providing a color calibrated image to a display. Such a method involves but is not limited to a securing step wherein the object or sample is affixed to a sample slide. The method also includes a recording step in which a plurality of images of the sample slide are recorded under a plurality of different lighting schemes and illuminations. A calibration selection step is also involved wherein the sample slide is removed from the microscope optical train and the microscope calibration slide is inserted into the optical train. A second recording step is then provided wherein a plurality of images of the calibration slides are recorded under a plurality of different lighting schemes and illuminations. Next a calibration step is provided wherein the poly stimulus values of the images of the calibration slide are used to estimate the proper color and transmission values of each pixel of the sample slide images For example the calibration calculation processes as described in U.S. Ser. No. 13 211 875 are implemented with the described invention. Finally there is an output step wherein a calibrated image is generated with the proper color and is then provided in electronic file format ready for storage or transmittal to a display device.

The above processing functions can operate as a series of programmed steps performed by a properly configured computer system using one or more modules of computer executable code. For instance a set of software modules can be configured to cooperate with one another to provide accurate color reproduction information to a display device as described herein. In this regard there can be an imaging module a slide selection module a data collection module a calibration module and an output module.

The imaging module can be configured as a series of discrete sub modules designed to access optical data from a digital image capture device and convert that data into a format suitable for individual pixel analysis. The imaging module incorporates functions enabling the present invention to record a set number of images change illuminants configure recording resolution and alter built in or other color filters.

The slide selection module can be configured as a series of discrete sub modules designed to inset or retract calibration slides object slides and reflective surfaces from the optical train.

A data collection module can be configured as a series of discrete sub modules designed to access the integral color target data located on the microscope slide access reference color and illuminant data located in a remote access database and record unique identifier information embedded within the slide.

The calibration module can be configured as a series of discrete sub modules providing the present invention with the necessary functionality to extract color value data from the image pixels compare extracted color values against a database of reference color values and transform the extracted pixel color values to conform to reference values.

The output module can be configured as a series of discrete sub modules designed to provide functionality to the present invention. The discrete sub modules could include instructions for combining the transformed pixels into a composite image transmitting images to a display device formatting images for a particular display device and updating a database of reference images and stored images.

Each of these modules can comprise hardware code executing in a processor or both that configures a machines such as the computing system to implement the functionality described herein. The functionality of these modules can be combined or further separated as understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art in analogous implementations of embodiments of the invention.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

