---

title: Automatically selecting alert modes based on location
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for automatically selecting alert modes for a mobile device based at least in part on the mobile device location. A location of the mobile device is determined. A map feature classification of the location is obtained from a server. One or more notifications of the mobile device are automatically to use a particular alert mode that is selected based at least in part on the map feature classification of the location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143898&OS=09143898&RS=09143898
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09143898
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130422
---
Mobile telephones may have a variety of alert modes. For example a phone may be put into a silent mode where the ringer is off a vibration mode where the ringer is off and a vibration device is on an indoor mode where the ringer is on at a low or medium setting an outdoor mode where the ringer is on at a high setting and or other modes. Users sometimes forget to change the alert mode on their phones leading to distraction and embarrassment for example when a loud phone ringtone inappropriately goes off in a quiet setting.

The present disclosure relates to selection of alert modes for mobile devices. Users sometimes forget to change the alert mode for their mobile phones. For example sometimes a loud ring tone may go off while a user is watching a movie in a movie theater. Alternatively users may put their phones in a silent mode for an occasion and then forget to change to a non silent mode. Consequently a user may miss an important call afterward because the phone was left in silent mode. Moreover a user may attend a loud outdoor event without changing the ringer volume from low to high possibly resulting in missed calls because the ringer is inaudible in the outdoor environment.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure facilitate automatic selection of an alert mode based at least in part on the current location of the mobile device. The current location of the mobile device is determined by a global satellite navigation system in the mobile device e.g. global positioning system GPS global navigation satellite system GLONASS etc. terrestrial based triangulation service and so on. A map feature is then ascertained using mapping data that associates geographical areas with businesses establishments offices events human made features natural features and so on. A classification of the map feature is then determined. An appropriate alert mode is selected based upon the map feature classification and one or more rules.

Referring now to shown are example scenarios and of alert mode selection according to various embodiments. In scenario a user of a mobile device is watching a movie in a movie theater. The location of the device is determined to be 3101 Cobb Pkwy 201. In one embodiment such a location may be determined based at least in part on criteria such as latitude longitude altitude and or time. The location may be associated with a map feature such as Hollywood Cinemas which may be associated with a classification of movie theater. A rule may be configured for the mobile device so as to put the mobile device in a silent mode when the mobile device is in a movie theater. The mobile device thus may be automatically configured in silent mode in response to determining the current location.

In scenario a user of a mobile device is watching a tractor pull. The location of the device is determined to be 423 Fairgrounds Way. The location may be associated with a map feature such as a fairground or more specifically a tractor pull given the current time and a scheduled time period for the tractor pull. The tractor pull may be associated with a classification of outdoor event. A rule may be configured for the mobile device so as to put the mobile device in an outdoor mode with a high volume when the mobile device is in an area where an outdoor event is occurring. The mobile device thus may be automatically configured in outdoor mode in response to determining the current location. It is noted that the same location the fairground may host events other than tractor pulls at other times. Such events may be of a more formal or quiet character which may result in a selection of silent mode or another alert mode as desired. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment may include a computing environment an external computing environment and one or more mobile devices in data communication via a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing environment may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the computing environment may employ a plurality of computing devices that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For example the computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the computing environment may correspond to an elastic computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources may vary over time.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing environment according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing environment . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the computing environment for example include a location classification service a mode selection service and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The location classification service is executed to receive current locations from mobile device and determine map feature classifications corresponding to the current locations . Such determined map feature classifications may be returned to the mobile devices via the network or may be returned to a mode selection service .

The mode selection service is configured to select alert modes for one or more notifications of the mobile device based at least in part on determined map feature classifications and one or more alert mode selection rules . The mode selection service may automatically initiate configuration of the mobile device in response to selecting an alert mode. To this end a selected alert mode may be returned to the mobile device via the network . In one embodiment the mode selection service may receive manually selected alert modes from mobile devices . The manually selected alert modes may be employed to crowd source selection of alert modes for a given map feature or map feature classification .

The data stored in the data store includes for example map feature data feature identification configuration data map feature classifications alert mode selection rules alert mode selection history and potentially other data. The map feature data identifies various map features for a geography. Such features may include features such as for example retailers restaurants event venues offices cemeteries places of worship movie theaters libraries beaches rivers parks golf courses amusement parks fairgrounds meeting rooms and or other map features. In some embodiments such map feature data may be obtained from an external data provider. Various techniques for discovering map features are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 474 047 filed on May 17 2012 and entitled DISCOVERY OF PUBLIC POINTS OF INTEREST which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Some of the map features may be permanent while others may be ephemeral. Ephemeral map features may be for example events businesses etc. which are scheduled to exist for a predefined time period or duration. Thus the map feature data may include a time range or duration for a given map feature.

Each of the map features may be associated with a respective geographic area and a given location may be evaluated as being within or outside of the geographic area. In one embodiment a geographic area is defined as a distance from reference coordinates for the map feature. In another embodiment a geographic area is defined using a boundary. In some cases a geographic area for a map feature may be defined also in terms of altitude. As a non limiting example a multi story office building may have one map feature located at the 15th floor and another map feature located at the 2nd floor.

The feature identification configuration data may include various configuration parameters employed to configure how map features are identified for a given location . For example the feature identification configuration data may indicate that a mobile device within 10 feet outside of the boundary of a map feature geographic area will be considered to be within or at the particular map feature. Alternatively or additionally the feature identification configuration data may indicate that a mobile device within 5 feet inside of the boundary of a map feature geographic area will be considered to be within or at the particular map feature.

The map feature classifications correspond to various generic classifications that may be applied to specific map features. As an example a map feature identified as Hollywood Cinemas 18 in the map feature data may be classified as a movie theater under the map feature classifications . As another example a map feature identified as Washington Public Library in the map feature data may be classified as a library under the map feature classifications . As still another example a map feature identified as 23rd Annual State Tractor Pull may be classified as a tractor pull under the map feature classifications . It is noted that the map feature classifications may include one or more hierarchies of such classifications. For example a tractor pull classification may be further classified as an outdoor event a library may be further classified as a government building a park may be further classified as an outdoor space and so on.

The alert mode selection rules may specify which alert modes are selected in response to the current location being identified as corresponding to a particular map feature classification . For example an alert mode selection rule may specify that the mobile device is to be placed in a silent mode upon entering a library. The alert mode selection rules may be predefined or user specified. As will be discussed in one embodiment the alert mode selection rules may be crowd sourced.

Additionally different alert mode selection rules may exist for different types of notifications e.g. text messages phone calls emails social networking notifications application notifications etc. and or for different sources e.g. work spouse friends uncategorized sources etc. . As an example a particular alert mode selection rule may cause email notifications to be silenced for a particular map feature classification while another alert mode selection rule may allow for a low volume ringtone for phone calls received while the mobile device is at the map feature associated with the same map feature classification . As another example an alert mode selection rule may indicate that a notification from a spouse is never silenced no matter the current location .

The alert mode selection rules may have a hierarchical organization in keeping with hierarchical map feature classifications . For example an alert mode selection rule may specify that the mobile device is to be placed in an outdoor mode in an outdoor event. More specific alert mode selection rules may override more generic alert mode selection rules when available. For example an outdoor concert may be a type of outdoor event but a specific alert mode selection rule may specify that the mobile device is to be placed in a vibration mode rather than the outdoor mode while at the outdoor concert.

In the vibration mode a vibration device of the mobile device may be activated rather than a sound device. Alternatively or additionally the mobile device may be configured to modify a visual notification in particular alert modes. For example the mobile device may illuminate or not illuminate a light emitting diode LED display a more prominent or less prominent notification upon a display and or modify other types of visual notifications.

The alert mode selection rules may be associated with parameters controlling activation. For example if a user is detected to be at a location but having a certain velocity meeting a minimum threshold e.g. the user is merely driving by a map feature than staying there the alert mode selection rule may not activate an alert mode. Also in some cases an alert mode selection rule may configure a reversion back to a previously selected alert mode in the mobile device when the mobile device is no longer detected as being at the particular map feature. In other cases the alert mode selection rule may permit the alert mode to persist when the mobile device is no longer detected as being at the particular map feature.

The alert mode selection history stores a history of manually selected alert modes generated by users manually placing their mobile devices in alert modes at particular locations. In one embodiment the alert mode selection history may be analyzed to automatically generate alert mode selection rules based upon what other users have done manually in the past. For example if users typically place their mobile devices in a silent alert mode when at cemeteries as recorded in the alert mode selection history an alert mode selection rule may be generated to place mobile devices in such a silent alert mode when at map features classified as cemeteries.

The external computing environment may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the external computing environment may employ a plurality of computing devices that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For example the external computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the external computing environment may correspond to an elastic computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources may vary over time. The external computing environment may be operated by an entity that is different from the entity that operates the computing environment .

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the external computing environment according to various embodiments. The components executed on the external computing environment for example include an external map data service and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The external map data service may be executed to serve up map feature data map feature classifications and or other information from external providers where the information is relevant to mapping.

In one embodiment the external map data service is configured to identify a map feature based at least in part on a current location provided by the computing environment and or the mobile device . Accordingly the external map data service is configured to return the map feature to the requestor via the network . In another embodiment the external map data service is configured to identify a map feature classification based at least in part on a current location provided by the computing environment and or the mobile device . Accordingly the external map data service is configured to return the map feature classification to the requestor via the network . In yet another embodiment the external map data service serves up bulk map feature data to the computing environment via the network .

The mobile device is representative of a plurality of mobile devices that may be coupled to the network . The mobile device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones music players tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The mobile device may include a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD displays gas plasma based flat panel displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays electrophoretic ink E ink displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc. The mobile device may also include a sound device a vibration device an LED device and or other output devices.

The mobile device may be configured to execute various applications such as a mode selection client application a location service and or other applications. The mode selection client application may be executed to effect changes to the selected alert modes of the mobile device based at least in part on the current location of the mobile device. The mode selection client application may render a user interface on the display to indicate the status of alert mode changes as well as to facilitate configuration of alert mode selection rules and various other configuration parameters. The location service is employed to determine a current location of the mobile device from a GPS device altimeter device triangulation service radio frequency identifier RFID sensor device and or other location finding sources. The mobile device may be configured to execute applications beyond the mode selection client application and the location service such as for example browsers mobile applications email applications social networking applications and or other applications.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin various alert mode selection rules are configured in the data store . Such alert mode selection rules may be manually preconfigured or automatically configured by the mode selection service as a result of processing manually selected alert modes . The alert mode selection rules may be entered by a particular user or crowd sourced as a result of other users entering alert mode selection rules .

A user of a mobile device may carry the mobile device to a new location. The mode selection client application receives the updated location from the location service . The mode selection client application may determine that the updated location is a different location. In some cases if the updated location is merely a few feet away from a previous location the mode selection client application may determine that the updated location is not a different location. The mode selection client application may then submit the current location to the location classification service via the network .

The location classification service as configured by the feature identification configuration data queries the map feature data and the map feature classifications based at least in part on the current location . For example the location classification service may identify a specific map feature encompassing the current location and then may identify a map feature classification corresponding to the specific map feature. In various embodiments the location classification service may be an external service and or rely upon externally provided map feature data and or map feature classifications provided by the external map data service or a plurality of different services.

In one embodiment the mode selection service obtains the map feature classification identified for the current location if available. The mode selection service determines one or more applicable alert mode selection rules based at least in part on the map feature classification . By applying one or more alert mode selection rules the mode selection service selects one or more alert modes. The mode selection service initiates a configuration of the mobile device to use one or more selected alert modes for one or more types of notifications. For example the mode selection service may send a directive to the mode selection client application to initiate usage of the selected alert mode s . In one scenario the selected alert modes may be determined and configured in response to a particular notification being sent to the mobile device .

In another embodiment the location classification service returns a determined map feature classification back to the mode selection client application . The mode selection client application may then determine in the mobile device which alert mode s to be employed. To this end the mode selection client application may have access to the alert mode selection rules in the data store or alert mode selection rules may be locally stored in the mobile device .

Upon configuration of an alert mode within the mobile device a dialog or other notification may be displayed within a user interface of the mobile device . Such configuration of the alert mode may be subject to confirmation by the user and the user may be capable of overriding such an alert mode configuration. Upon configuration the selected alert mode may remain in use by the mobile device until expiration of a duration associated with a map feature at the current location until the mobile device is no longer located at the same map feature until the user manually changes the selected alert mode or until some other event. In some embodiments the mode selection client application may configure the mobile device to revert to a default alert mode and or a previously selected alert mode upon change of the current location so as to leave the particular map feature. When a user manually configures an alert mode the manually selected alert mode may be reported back to the computing environment for use in generating the alert mode selection history .

It is noted that the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application may be configured to refrain from initiating configuration of a selected alert mode in a mobile device where the mobile device is associated with a velocity meeting or exceeding a maximum threshold. For example if a user with a mobile device is merely driving past a particular map feature it may be desirable not to have the mobile device change alert modes.

Various other techniques relating to location based notifications are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 596 119 filed on Aug. 28 2012 and entitled MOBILE NOTIFICATIONS BASED UPON LOCATION which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Turning now to shown is an example user interface rendered by a mobile device in the networked environment according to various embodiments. The user interface facilitates creation of alert mode selection rules by users. The user interface includes a classification specification component that allows a user to select from a listing of possible map feature classifications . Also the user interface includes one or more alert mode selection components to facilitate selection of particular alert modes for various types of notifications. For example the alert mode selection component facilitates selection of an alert mode for phone call notifications while the alert mode selection component facilitates selection of an alert mode for other notifications. The add rule component creates an alert mode selection rule according to the selected parameters. It is noted that additional parameters regarding identification of map feature classifications and selection of alert modes may be specified in other embodiments.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing environment and or the mobile device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box whether the mobile device has been moved may be determined. As a non limiting example when the mobile device is moved the accelerometer may detect movement. In box the current location of the mobile device is determined. For example the location service may determine the current location which may then be provided to the mode selection service and or the location classification service . The current location may be determined in response to a determination of movement of the mobile device so as to conserve power in the mobile device for location determination. In box a map feature classification is for the current location is determined by and obtained from the location classification service .

In box the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application determines whether a valid map feature classification is determined. In some cases the current location may be unclassified or a valid map feature classification may not be determined. If a map feature classification is not determined the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application returns to box and again determines the current location . If a map feature classification is determined the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application continues to box .

In box the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application determines whether to apply an alert mode selection rule . As an example it may be decided not to apply an alert mode selection rule based upon the velocity of the mobile device . As another example a user may manually override the application of alert mode selection rules . If an alert mode selection rule is not to be applied or if an alert mode selection rule does not exist for the map feature classification the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application moves to box and determines whether to prompt the user to create an alert mode selection rule for the map feature classification . It is noted that social norms may change over time and users may be given the opportunity to change existing alert mode selection rules as well.

If the user is not prompted to create a rule the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application returns to box . If the user is prompted to create a rule a user interface may be rendered for rule creation for the map feature classification . In box the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application determines whether an alert mode selection rule has been created. If an alert mode selection rule has not been created the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application returns to box .

If an alert mode selection rule has been created the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application continues to box . If an alert mode selection rule is to be applied the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application continues from box to box . In box the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application applies one or more alert mode selection rules to select one or more alert modes.

In box the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application configures the mobile device to use the selected alert mode s for one or more types of notifications. In box the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application determines whether the mobile device is no longer at the map feature corresponding to the map feature classification . If the mobile device is still at the map feature the determination of box may be repeated.

When the mobile device is no longer at the map feature the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application continues to box and configures the mobile device to use previously selected alert modes. Alternatively the mobile device may move from one map feature to another map feature which may fall under another map feature classification and rule set. Thereafter the flowchart ends.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing environment according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing environment includes one or more computing devices . Each computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end each computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are a mode selection service a location classification service and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the mobile device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The mobile device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated. A display and a location device e.g. a GPS device an RFID sensor etc. may also be coupled to the local interface .

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are a mode selection client application a location service and potentially other applications. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the mode selection service the location classification service the mode selection client application the location service and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart of shows the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the mode selection service and or the mode selection client application . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowchart of shows a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the mode selection service the location classification service the mode selection client application and the location service that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

