---

title: System and method for dynamic geo-fencing
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes establishing a geo-fencing environment for the information handling system. The method further includes monitoring a stream of context information. In addition, the method includes determining whether the geo-fencing environment should be dynamically modified responsive to new context information in the stream. Furthermore, the method includes dynamically modifying the geo-fencing environment responsive to the determining so indicating.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565526&OS=09565526&RS=09565526
owner: Dell Products L.P.
number: 09565526
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130225
---
The present invention relates generally to information security and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods for dynamically maintaining a geo fencing environment.

Traditional geo fencing solutions specify an action to be taken when a monitored device enters or exits a geo fenced area. For example the geo fenced area may be defined as a distance radius relative to a fixed point and the specified action may be to sound an alarm. However traditional geo fencing solutions are generally inflexible. For example such solutions do not generally enable a geo fence to be modified once it is established.

Moreover as the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

In one embodiment a method includes establishing a geo fencing environment for an information handling system. The method further includes monitoring by the information handling system a stream of context information. In addition the method includes determining by the information handling system whether the geo fencing environment should be dynamically modified responsive to new context information in the stream. Furthermore the method includes the information handling system dynamically modifying the geo fencing environment responsive to the determining so indicating.

In one embodiment an information handling system includes a processing unit operable to perform a method. The method includes establishing a geo fencing environment for the information handling system. The method further includes monitoring a stream of context information. In addition the method includes determining whether the geo fencing environment should be dynamically modified responsive to new context information in the stream. Furthermore the method includes dynamically modifying the geo fencing environment responsive to the determining so indicating.

In one embodiment a computer program product includes a computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein. The computer readable program code is adapted to be executed to implement a method. The method includes establishing a geo fencing environment for an information handling system. The method further includes monitoring a stream of context information. In addition the method includes determining whether the geo fencing environment should be dynamically modified responsive to new context information in the stream. Furthermore the method includes dynamically modifying the geo fencing environment responsive to the determining so indicating.

In various embodiments geo fences can be made dynamic and more flexible via principles described herein. In a typical embodiment an information handling system such as for example a smart phone has a geo fencing application loaded and executing thereon that dynamically maintains a geo fencing environment for the information handling system. The geo fencing application can establish and dynamically maintain the geo fencing environment based on for example dynamic context information.

A geo fence as used herein refers to a virtual perimeter for a real world geographic area. The real world geographic area within a given geo fence will be referenced herein as a geo fenced area. A geo fencing application as used herein is a software application that is operable to facilitate establishment and or modification of a geo fence for a given information handling system. Dynamic context information as used herein refers to variable characteristics of an information handling system and or of the information handling system s environment. Such variable characteristics may be referenced herein as contextual variables. Dynamic context information that provides values for contextual variables may be referenced herein as contextual values.

For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute calculate determine classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display communicate manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop tablet computer mobile device e.g. personal digital assistant PDA or smart phone server e.g. blade server or rack server a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse touchscreen and or a video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

Although the contextual subsystem and the rules engine are depicted as two separate software components in various other embodiments such software components are organized differently. For example the contextual subsystem and the rules engine could be merged with the geo fencing application be combined into a single software component separate from the geo fencing application each be further divided into other software components or have their collective functionality allocated differently among any number of software components.

The contextual subsystem is operable to provide a stream of dynamic context information to the geo fencing application which information the geo fencing application can leverage to dynamically maintain the geo fencing environment . In various embodiments functionality of the contextual subsystem is exposed to the geo fencing application via for example an application programming interface API . In various other embodiments the contextual subsystem may be considered an abstraction of a plurality of contextual sources that are accessible to the geo fencing application . The contextual subsystem may be provided for example by a third party software vendor a given device vendor or by an aggregation of multiple software and or device vendors.

The contextual subsystem typically leverages hardware and software resources of the information handling system to produce the dynamic context information. For example the contextual subsystem can utilize global positioning system GPS capabilities operating system provided resources and the like. Therefore it should be appreciated that the contextual subsystem is typically operable to provide numerous categories of context information. For example as described in greater detail below the dynamic context information can include any combination of location information proximity information scheduling information user information security capability information service type information and content classification information. Numerous other categories of context information are also contemplated and will be apparent to one of skill in the art after reviewing the inventive principles outlined herein.

The location information typically includes information indicative of a physical location of the information handling system . For example in various embodiments the location information identifies a geographic location e.g. geographic coordinates . In various embodiments the location information can further identify whether the information handling system is located indoors or outdoors. The proximity information includes information identifying a geographic proximity of the information handling system to a target such as for example another information handling system e.g. another information handling system associated with the same user an object or a geographic location. The scheduling information can include for example a current date and time.

The user information classifies a user of the information handling system and can include for example information identifying the user and a group and or domain to which the user belongs. The security capability information typically includes information identifying a security tier of the user. For example the security capability information can indicate whether the user has local corporate or cloud level authentication. The service type information usually classifies information being exchanged for example as a file transfer a screen share a discovery broadcast a discovery response or the like. Finally the content classification information indicates a degree to which content such as for example a document or media file is deemed confidential or sensitive. For example the content classification information can result from an analysis of the content and can include a score a category classification or the like.

The rules engine establishes polices that govern maintenance of the geo fencing environment based on contextual variables. The policies of the rules engine can be established by users corporate administrators or other parties. In a typical embodiment each policy is a rule that includes a Boolean expression and at least one result that is dependent upon whether the Boolean expression evaluates to true or false. For example the Boolean expression for each rule can specify absolute values and or ranges of values for each of one or more contextual variables. The values and or ranges of values can be connected by Boolean operators such as for example AND OR and NOT. As shown the rules engine includes definitional rules and action rules .

In a typical embodiment the definitional rules establish policies for resolving an appropriate geo fence. For example the definitional rules can be used to determine whether any geo fence is applicable and if so how the geo fence is defined e.g. a distance radius or a formula for calculating the distance radius based on contextual variables . In particular the at least one result of each of the definitional rules defines the boundaries of an applicable geo fence. In various embodiments the definitional rules can include a separate rule for each distinct geo fence definition. In various other embodiments the definitional rules can additionally include for example conditional logic e.g. If Else logic that logically connects multiple Boolean expressions in a determined fashion. In these embodiments each branch of the conditional logic could relate to a distinct geo fence definition. For example a single rule could be applicable to multiple or all geo fence definitions.

In a typical embodiment the action rules establish policies governing operation of the information handling system within a geo fenced area. In one aspect the action rules can be used to define actions to be taken by the information handling system if the Boolean expression evaluates to true or false as applicable. For example the Boolean expression of a given rule of the action rules can relate to whether the information handling system has exited the geo fenced area. The at least one result of the given rule could be at least one action such as for example sounding an alarm wiping all or a configurable portion of memory of the information handling system notifying a vendor or service provider for the information handling system or the like.

In another aspect the action rules can be used to restrict actions that can be taken by a user of the information handling system while the information handling system is within a geo fenced area. For example the action rules could include rules that determine an allowability of particular types of information exchanges. Examples of how information exchanges can be controlled based on dynamic context information are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 755 237 which application is hereby incorporated by reference.

It should be appreciated that the definitional rules and the action rules are merely illustrative of types rules that can be maintained by the rules engine . In various embodiments the rules engine maintains other rules in addition to the definitional rules and the action rules . In addition it should not be inferred that the rules engine must store and maintain the definitional rules and the action rules differently than or separately from other rules or each other. Rather the definitional rules and the action rules are illustrative of logically related types of rules that the rules engine can maintain. While some embodiments may utilize separate storage and or maintenance of the definitional rules and the action rules in other embodiments the definitional rules and the action rules are stored and maintained together with other rules.

The geo fencing environment includes a geo fence definition and a rule set . The geo fence definition typically includes information sufficient to outline the boundaries of an applicable geo fenced area at a given point in time. For example the geo fence definition may include a distance radius relative to a fixed point such as for example a geographic location e.g. a public location such as a restaurant . In a typical embodiment the geo fence definition is created via a definitional rule from the definitional rules . The rule set includes rules that are applicable to the geo fence definition at the given point in time. For example the rule set can include rules that define actions that take place relative to the geo fence definition . The rule set typically includes rules that are selected from the action rules . It should be appreciated the rule set is not necessarily maintained separate and apart from for example the action rules . Rather in a typical embodiment the rule set is representative of those rules of the action rules that could evaluate to true given the geo fence definition .

In various embodiments the geo fencing application is operable to maintain selected rules from each of the definitional rules and the action rules as profiles. In that way each profile is generally a specified configuration of the definitional rules and the action rules . As will be described in more detail with respect to each profile can specify for example one or more definitional rules of the definitional rules and one or more action rules of the action rules that are to be utilized at a specified point in time. For example profiles may exist that correspond to each of a public location a user s home a physical site for an enterprise the existence of specific other information handling systems in close proximity thereto or the like. In this fashion depending on a physical location of the information handling system a proximity of the information handling system to another information handling system or other contextual values different profiles and different rules may be applicable. In various embodiments profiles can also be user created and or user initiated. For example a user may create a custom profile that corresponds to a public location e.g. a restaurant . The user could initiate that profile or any other profile upon entry to the public location.

In operation the geo fencing application dynamically maintains the geo fencing environment based on interactions with the contextual subsystem and the rules engine . The geo fencing application monitors a stream of dynamic context information received from the contextual subsystem . The stream of dynamic context information supplies contextual values that can be used for evaluating the definitional rules and the action rules . Since the geo fencing environment is dynamically maintained the geo fence definition and the rule set can change for example responsive to new dynamic context information. Examples will be described with respect to .

The one or more definitional rules are typically selected from a master set of definitional rules such as for example the definitional rules of . The one or more definitional rules govern how a geo fence is established when the profile is active. Similarly the one or more action rules are typically selected from a master set of action rules such as for example the action rules of . The one or more action rules govern operation of the information handling system when the profile is active.

At step the geo fencing application establishes the geo fencing environment. Establishing the geo fencing environment typically involves creating a geo fence definition and identifying an associated rule set. In a typical embodiment the geo fence definition is created based on a set of definitional rules such as for example the definitional rules of . In a typical embodiment the associated rule set is identified from a set of action rules such as for example the action rules of . In various embodiments the geo fencing application may utilize an applicable profile such as for example the profile of to establish the geo fencing environment. From step the process proceeds to step .

At step the geo fencing application monitors a stream of dynamic context information received from a contextual subsystem such as for example the contextual subsystem of . The stream of dynamic context information supplies contextual values that can be used for evaluating the definitional rules and the action rules. Additionally the geo fencing application typically applies the associated rule set for the geo fencing environment using the stream of dynamic context information. As the geo fencing application receives new dynamic context information the process proceeds to step .

At step the geo fencing application determines whether the geo fencing environment should be modified responsive to the new dynamic context information. In various embodiments the determination encompasses evaluating rules of the definitional rules and of the action rules via contextual values provided by the dynamic context information. For example the new dynamic context information may indicate that the information handling system is now outdoors has entered or left a defined proximity distance to another information handling system or the like. If it is determined at step that the geo fencing environment should be modified the process proceeds to step . If it is determined at step that the geo fencing environment should not be modified the process returns to step and proceeds as described above.

At step the geo fencing application dynamically modifies the geo fencing environment. In various embodiments the dynamic modification includes creating a geo fence definition and identifying an associated rule set in a manner similar to that which is described with respect to step . As a result of step the geo fencing environment typically includes a different geo fence definition and or a different associated rule set. From step the process returns to step and operates as described above. In a typical embodiment the process continues to execute until the geo fencing application s geo fencing functionality is deactivated for example by an authenticated user.

At step the geo fencing application establishes the geo fencing environment. Establishing the geo fencing environment typically involves creating a geo fence definition and identifying an associated rule set as described with respect to step of . The geo fence definition can be for example an electronic leash relative to another information handling system. For purposes of this example the associated rule set is assumed to include at least one rule that is triggered when the information handling system exits the geo fenced area. As described in greater detail below the at least one rule specifies one or more actions that should be taken responsive to the at least one rule being triggered. From step the process proceeds to step .

At step the geo fencing application monitors a stream of dynamic context information received from a contextual subsystem such as for example the contextual subsystem of . The stream of dynamic context information supplies contextual values that can be used for evaluating the definitional rules and the action rules. Additionally the geo fencing application typically applies the associated rule set for the geo fencing environment using the stream of dynamic context information. As the geo fencing application receives new dynamic context information the process proceeds to step .

At step the geo fencing application determines whether the information handling system has exited the geo fenced area. In various embodiments the determination encompasses evaluating the at least one rule via one or more contextual values provided by the dynamic context information. In a typical embodiment exiting the geo fenced area raises an inference that the information handling system has been stolen. If it is determined at step that the information handling system has exited the geo fenced area the process proceeds to step . If it is determined at step that the information handling system has not exited the geo fenced area the process returns to step .

At step the geo fencing application takes the one or more actions specified by the at least one rule. For example the one or more actions may include sounding an alarm dynamically creating a new geo fence definition and identifying a new rule set based on the new geo fence definition. In a typical embodiment the new geo fence definition corresponds to an area in which the alarm can likely be heard so that the information handling system can be recovered. The new rule set typically includes at least one rule that specifies one or more actions to be taken if the information handling system exits the new geo fenced area. Therefore step results in a new geo fence environment that includes the new geo fence definition and the new associated rule set. From step the process proceeds to step .

At step the geo fencing application again monitors the stream of dynamic context information as described with respect to step . As the geo fencing application receives new dynamic context information the process proceeds to step . At step the geo fencing application determines whether the information handling system has exited the new geo fenced area. The determination typically involves evaluating the at least one rule of the new rule set via contextual values provided by the dynamic context information. In a typical embodiment exiting the new geo fenced area raises an inference that the information handling system is not likely to be quickly recovered. If it is determined at step that the information handling system has exited the new geo fenced area the process proceeds to step . If it is determined at step that the information handling system has not exited the new geo fenced area the process returns to step .

At step the geo fencing application takes the one or more actions specified by the at least one rule of the new rule set. For example the one or more actions may include wiping all or a configurable portion of the information handling system s memory locking the information handling system from access and or reporting a possible theft of the information handling system e.g. to a service provider an enterprise or a user associated with the information handling system . After step the process ends.

Although various embodiments of the method and apparatus of the present invention have been illustrated in the accompanying Drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit of the invention as set forth herein.

