---

title: Integrated gaming system and method for managing gameplay across multiple platforms
abstract: An integrated gaming system for managing gameplay, and tracking and awarding rewards, across multiple gaming platforms; which connects an integrated gaming application, executing on a gaming device, in a browser, or a general computing devices; with an integrated gaming server, which can communicate with a number of connected external gaming servers. Furthermore disclosed is a computer-implemented integrated gaming method for reviewing reward levels, reviewing available games, playing games and obtaining rewards. The rewards can be additional games access, physical items, monetary awards, or the right to participate in events with celebrities, well-known athletes, or notable game players.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09216356&OS=09216356&RS=09216356
owner: 
number: 09216356
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130603
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of online video gaming and more particularly to managing gameplay and awarding incentives across multiple online gaming platforms.

Video games developed from early prototypes in the late 1940 s and 1950 s. The modern era of video games was initiated in the 1970 s to large degree driven by popular games such as Pong and Space Invaders. During the last decade video game consoles and their attached game controllers have become sophisticated computational devices often linked to an online network component offering centralized management and collaborative gameplay.

Xbox Live and the PlayStation Network are examples of popular platforms that have remained successful in the marketplace despite of economic woes that have undermined the global economy including the video game industry. Online console video game participation has grown well beyond 100 million users combined in large part thanks to the integration of entertainment applications. Adding these applications has evolved the online gaming network into an interactive entertainment system for video games movies music and consumerism.

Paralleling this development of online gaming celebrities have publicly discussed their interest in gaming. It is well known that a large contingent of celebrities and athletes play videogames through Xbox Live PlayStation Network and other gaming platforms. Although these individuals tend to keep a low profile online incentivized gaming would encourage them to play more openly. By playing video games for a few hours a week a celebrity could simultaneously benefit charity work and promote his or her public image.

There are online gaming services which provide rewards for gaming accomplishment. However they only provide rewards for play within their own restricted and proprietary game platforms. No current online gaming services provide integrated access to other external gaming platforms. In addition they do not provide celebrity related rewards or access to game play with celebrity participation.

There are some gaming sites and gaming platform that reward game play on their proprietary platform with prizes and others that allow users to watch celebrities play against each other but at present there are no online gaming applications that allows everyday gamers to compete against celebrities.

In addition there are no sites or platforms that offer games across multiple external systems for example offering applications that are integrated with both Xbox Live and the PlayStation Network or any other major console and gaming network provider.

The present invention builds on existing online gaming products services and platforms by allowing users to compete across multiple platforms and accumulate rewards and prices in a central system tied to their game performance in various third party gaming systems. Additionally the rewards system provides access to meet with or play online games with celebrities or other notable persons.

The foregoing needs are met to a great extent by the present invention wherein in aspects of this invention enhancements are provided to the existing model of online gaming to allow managed access to a plurality of external gaming platforms and accrue rewards based on gameplay accomplishments in the external gaming platforms.

In an aspect of the integrated gaming system the network contains an integrated gaming application executing inside external proprietary gaming platforms such as Xbox Live and the PlayStation Network. The application is accessible through the opening screen or application menu in the external gaming platform.

In a related aspect the integrated gaming application can execute as a browser based application or as an application on a computer or mobile device such as a PC laptop tablet smart phone or similar device.

In another aspect everyday users can gain rewards based on game accomplishments and compete against each other for prizes as well as the chance to play against celebrities.

In a related aspect player rewards are aggregated in the integrated gaming system based on accomplishments in external gaming platforms by translating the proprietary rewards in these platforms to an integrated score system which enables players to compare results achieved in different external games and platforms.

In another aspect players can enter tournaments that are setup controlled and managed in the integrated gaming system with game play actually executing in the external gaming platforms.

In a related aspect players can gain access to tournament leagues that offer a structured competitive environment for players of comparably ability. Players earn points and associated tournament league standing by competing in game sessions on the external gaming platforms.

In another aspect players maintain their identity on the integrated gaming system which is linked via an identity management function to other distinct profiles on associated external gaming platforms. This relational structure thereby allows the integrated gaming system to maintain an aggregated status of accomplishments and results on the various external gaming platforms.

There has thus been outlined rather broadly certain embodiments of the invention in order that the detailed description thereof herein may be better understood and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are of course additional embodiments of the invention that will be described below and which will form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto.

In this respect before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of embodiments in addition to those described and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. In addition it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein as well as the abstract are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception upon which this disclosure is based may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other structures methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the present invention. It is important therefore that the claims be regarded as including such equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

An embodiment of an integrated gaming system for managing gameplay across multiple gaming platform describes a computer implemented system that

In the following we describe the structure of such an embodiment in the form of a computer implemented system with reference to in such manner that like reference numerals refer to like components throughout a convention that we shall employ for the remainder of this specification. An integrated gaming system can include

In a further related embodiment of the integrated gaming system a plurality of integrated gaming applications can be connected to the integrated gaming server each of the gaming applications executing on an instance of a local computing platform comprising either a computer device a web browser or a gaming devices or a combination of these components .

In an example embodiment the external gaming domain could be configured to contain the Xbox Live external gaming server and the PlayStation Network external gaming server and a large number of users can be using the system each user employing a specific instance of the integrated gaming application each executing on a specific local computing platform for example either an Xbox or PlayStation game console with attached game controller devices.

In an embodiment the computing device can be part of a general computer such as a personal computer PC a tablet a notebook a laptop a workstation a server a mainframe computer a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a mobile device a smart television a similar device or some combination of these. Such a device can include a memory a processor input out components and other components that are common for general computers all of which are well known in the art and therefore will not be further elaborated or described herein.

In an embodiment as illustrated in the integrated gaming server includes a processor a memory and an input output an identity management component a gaming server control component a game management component a transaction management component a reward management component and a league management component all connected via a data bus .

It shall be understood that the above mentioned components of the integrated gaming server are to be interpreted in the most general manner so that for example the processor can include a single physical microprocessor or microcontroller a cluster of processors a datacenter or a cluster of datacenters a computing cloud service and the like the memory can includes random access memory and other forms of temporary storage and hard disks hard disk clusters cloud storage services and other forms of permanent storage and the input output can include a plurality of well known input output devices such as screens keyboards pointing devices motion trackers and so forth.

Furthermore it shall be understood that the the integrated gaming server can include a number of other components that are well known in the art of general computer devices and therefore shall not be further described herein. This can include system access to common functions and hardware such as for example via operating system layers such as Windows Server Linux Server and similar operating system software but can include configurations wherein application services are executing directly on server hardware or via a hardware abstraction layer other than a complete operating system.

The gaming device can be part of a specialized gaming device such as an Xbox PlayStation or similar game console including portable gaming consoles such as the PlayStation Vita and can furthermore include attached game controller devices including hand held devices and other components that are attached to the game console.

The gaming device can communicate directly with a corresponding external gaming server via the particular manufacturer communication channel which may be proprietary or part of an open application programming interface. An example of this could be an Xbox console gaming device which communicates with the external gaming server of the Xbox Live gaming network. This communication is not directly controlled by the integrated gaming server .

The integrated gaming application and the local computing platform can include programming code such as source code object code or executable code stored on a computer readable medium that can be loaded into the memory and processed by the processor in order to perform the desired functions.

In another alternative embodiment the integrated gaming application and the local computing platform can be respectively a browser based application and a standard web browser.

In another alternative embodiment the integrated gaming application and the local computing platform can be part of a native application executing on top of an operating system and computer execution environment such as for example Windows or iOS Apple O S operating within a computer device .

In an embodiment the integrated gaming server communicates with the external gaming servers in the external gaming domain over a communication channel which can be the general Internet a Wide Area Network or a Local Area Network or another form of communication network transmitted on wired or wireless connections.

In a related embodiment the integrated gaming server communicates with instances of the integrated gaming application of which separate instances are used by users that are registered on the integrated gaming server communicating over a communication channel which can be the general internet a Wide Area Network or a Local Area Network or another form of communication network transmitted on either wired or wireless connections.

In a related embodiment of the integrated gaming system an identity management component of the integrated gaming server is established wherein players can enter a user profile which is stored on the integrated gaming server such that the user profile also contains information on the user s associated user profile on each separate external gaming server. This associated external gaming server user profile can contain authentication information such as passwords allowing the user to authorize the integrated gaming server to log on to the external gaming server on behalf of the user. This relational structure thereby allows the integrated gaming system to store and process an aggregated status of accomplishments and results on the various external gaming platforms.

In a related embodiment of the integrated gaming system configured with a gaming server control component the integrated gaming server can log on to a particular external gaming server to perform a plurality of external gaming server functions via an application programming interface of the external gaming server including 

In such an embodiment of the integrated gaming system configured with a gaming server control component the initiation of a game session can include that the external gaming server upon receipt of a request from the integrated gaming server can initiate communication with one or more corresponding gaming devices to start game sessions on these gaming devices . This communication and game control functionality is part of the normal proprietary technical capabilities of the external gaming server and its corresponding gaming device which is controlled by the external gaming server via an open application programming interface. In some embodiments such an application programming interface may support indirect communication with the gaming device via a communication channel with the external gaming server which then communicates with the gaming device via another communication channel . In other embodiments the application programming interface may support direct communication with the gaming device via another communication channel .

In a related embodiment of the integrated gaming system configured with a transaction management component the integrated gaming server stores and aggregates information in memory on user game play activities retrieved from connected external gaming servers and aggregates this information per user so that users can win rewards or receive incentives based on their game play accomplishments. Such incentives can be in the form of internal status recognition physical prizes monetary rewards and right to participate in specific gaming or meeting events.

In a related embodiment of the integrated gaming system configured with a reward management component players rewards are aggregated in the integrated gaming system based on accomplishments in external gaming platforms by translating the proprietary scores or reward levels in these platforms to an integrated score system via lookup in an integrated scoring table shown in which enables players to compare results achieved in different external games and platforms. As an example the score calculation for a particular gameplay accomplishment on a specific external gaming system System Y represented by the column System Y External Score can be done by finding the corresponding external score or reward Sys Y Score a and translating this to a corresponding integrated score Reward a in the same row of the Integrated Score column . The score matching on the external system can be an equality match a match within a numeric range a textual pattern match a pattern match or a mathematical function match. The reward translation can further include a numeric function transformation.

In a further related embodiment of the integrated gaming system the reward management component can include a reward availability structure stored in memory which can identify available rewards list the count for specific rewards available the period of availability status of award of a reward completion of award and other meta information related to an award. As an example the reward availability structure could record that 50 tablet devices would be available as a reward on a monthly basis. In this case awards could be issued during a given month until the 50 tablets had been issued to users of the integrated gaming system and in the beginning of the following month the reward availability structure would be updated in the memory to reset the tablet rewards available to 50 and users would again be able to win this particular reward.

In a related embodiment of the integrated gaming system configured with a game management component players can enter managed games including single player games multi player games and tournaments that are setup stored in memory controlled and managed in the integrated gaming system with game play actually executing on gaming devices related to or managed via an external gaming server .

In a related embodiment of the integrated gaming system where the integrated gaming server further comprises a league management component players can be associated with a tournament league via their user profile and thereby gain access to tournament leagues that offer a structured competitive environment for players of comparable ability. Players earn points and associated tournament league standing by competing in tournament league game sessions on the external gaming servers. Results of games sessions associated with the tournament league can be stored in memory.

Additionally in an embodiment of the integrated gaming system the integrated gaming application executing on either the a external game device a web browser or a computing device can communicate information to the user and request user input by way of an interactive menu driven visual display based user interface or graphical user interface GUI . The user interface can be executed for example on a personal computer PC with a mouse and keyboard with which the user may interactively input information using direct manipulation of the GUI. Direct manipulation can include the use of a pointing device such as a mouse a stylus or a touch sensitive screen to select from a variety of selectable fields including selectable menus drop down menus tabs buttons bullets checkboxes text boxes and the like. Nevertheless various embodiments of the integrated gaming system may incorporate any number of additional functional user interface schemes in place of this interface scheme with or without the use of a mouse or buttons or keys including for example a trackball a touch screen or a voice activated system.

Next in step Review Available Games the games that are available to play can be retrieved from memory and viewed via an input output device including a screen and a pointing device. The available games reference available games across a plurality of external gaming platforms and can be dependent on the level of rewards achieved.

Next in step Play Games a game can be selected and started up via an external gaming server. The game can be played on a game device which is associated with the selected game. Information about the game and the associated game device is retrieved from memory. During this step transaction information about gameplay accomplishment and associated reward information is stored in memory.

Finally in step Obtain Rewards a reward can be obtained based on gameplay accomplishments during the Play Games step. The reward status is registered in memory and a reward can be related to an event such as a user status recognition a physical prize a monetary award or the right to participate in specific gaming or meeting event. Upon completion of the reward event memory is updated by the processor to reflect completion of the event.

Step Obtain Rewards can in a related embodiment include a reward related to a meeting or activity with a notable person who may or may not be a registered member for example a celebrity or a high ranking or professional game player. Such activity or meeting can include a scheduled game session a physical meeting a backstage pass at the notable user s event a lunch a dinner or other activities with or concerning the notable person. The particular metadata concerning the event is updated in memory by the processor and can include information about the type of event and the time at which the event will take place.

In this regard depicts the computer device of an embodiment which contains several of the key components of a general purpose computer by which an embodiment of the present invention may be implemented. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a computer can include many components. However it is not necessary that all of these generally conventional components be shown in order to disclose an illustrative embodiment for practicing the invention. The general purpose computer can include a processing unit and a system memory which may include random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . The computer also may include nonvolatile storage memory such as a hard disk drive where additional data can be stored 

An embodiment of the present invention can also include one or more input or output components such as a mouse keyboard monitor and the like. A display can be provided for viewing text and graphical data as well as a user interface to allow a user to request specific operations. Furthermore an embodiment of the present invention may be connected to one or more remote computers via a network interface. The connection may be over a local area network LAN wide area network WAN and can include all of the necessary circuitry for such a connection.

Typically computer program instructions may be loaded onto the computer or other general purpose programmable machine to produce a specialized machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable machine create means for implementing the functions specified in the block diagrams schematic diagrams or flowcharts. Such computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that when loaded into a computer or other programmable machine can direct the machine to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement the function specified in the block diagrams schematic diagrams or flowcharts.

In addition the computer program instructions may be loaded into a computer or other programmable machine to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the computer or other programmable machine to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable machine provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the block diagram schematic diagram flowchart block or step.

Accordingly blocks or steps of the block diagram flowchart or control flow illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block or step of the block diagrams schematic diagrams or flowcharts as well as combinations of blocks or steps can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions that perform the specified functions or steps.

As an example provided for purposes of illustration only a data input software tool of a search engine application can be a representative means for receiving a query including one or more search terms. Similar software tools of applications or implementations of embodiments of the present invention can be means for performing the specified functions. For example an embodiment of the present invention may include computer software for interfacing a processing element with a user controlled input device such as a mouse keyboard touch screen display scanner or the like. Similarly an output of an embodiment of the present invention may include for example a combination of display software video card hardware and display hardware. A processing element may include for example a controller or microprocessor such as a central processing unit CPU arithmetic logic unit ALU or control unit.

The many features and advantages of the invention are apparent from the detailed specification and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the invention which fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention. This can include alternative configurations wherein for example the integrated gaming server is executing as a service within an external gaming server or in another variation an integrated gaming server can operate in a distributed manner in the local computing environment which can include the integrated gaming server operating in a distributed manner on gaming devices such as gaming consoles owned by users of the integrated gaming systems.

The integrated gaming server communicates via the internet or some other communication channel with an external gaming server hosted within a first gaming network cloud . The external gaming server can be connected to a plurality of gaming consoles . The integrated gaming server can communicate indirectly with the gaming consoles via the external gaming server or it can communicate directly with both the external gaming server and the gaming consoles .

The integrated gaming server can communicate with a plurality of such gaming networks. depicts a second gaming network cloud .

In a related embodiment the external gaming server can be configured so that it can perform as a client side component.

Many such alternative configurations are readily apparent and should be considered to be fully included in this specification and the claims appended hereto. Accordingly since numerous modifications and variations will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation illustrated and described and thus all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention.

