---

title: Hybrid optical apparatuses including optical waveguides
abstract: Described are embodiments of hybrid optical apparatuses including anti-resonant optical waveguides, and methods for making such apparatuses and systems. In one embodiment, a hybrid optical apparatus may include a first semiconductor region including an active region of one or more layers of semiconductor materials and a second semiconductor region coupled with the first semiconductor region. The second semiconductor region may include an optical waveguide configured to transmit light inputted by a light input component. The optical waveguide may be defined by a first trench disposed on a first side of the waveguide, and a second trench disposed on a second side of the waveguide opposite the first side. A width of each trench may vary along a length of the apparatus to control optical power density of the light transmitted along the optical waveguide. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09134478&OS=09134478&RS=09134478
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09134478
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract number H98230 10 9 0021 awarded by the Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present application is a national phase entry under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2013 059999 filed Sep. 16 2013 entitled HYBRID OPTICAL APPARATUSES INCLUDING OPTICAL WAVEGUIDES which designates among the various States the United States of America and the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to the field of photonic devices. More particularly embodiments of the present disclosure relate to an apparatus having a heterogeneously integrated hybrid laser amplifier and or a hybrid photodetector that may include anti resonant optical waveguides.

Semiconductor hybrid optical apparatuses such as lasers amplifiers or photodetectors may be made from light emitting and absorbing electro optic properties of III V semiconductor materials. Optical apparatuses may be composed of two components a III V active region to generate or absorb light and a silicon waveguide to carry the light.

The optical mode of some optical apparatuses may be controlled by the waveguide dimensions. In general a high overlap of the optical mode with the III V region of the optical apparatuses is desired. Pushing the optical mode into the III V region however may sometimes result in optical mode leakage and or widening of the optical mode.

Described herein include embodiments of a hybrid optical apparatus having anti resonant optical waveguides a system including the hybrid optical apparatus having optical waveguides and a method for forming a hybrid optical apparatus including optical waveguides.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments in which the subject matter of the present disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A B and or C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C .

The description may use perspective based descriptions such as top bottom in out over under and the like. Such descriptions are merely used to facilitate the discussion and are not intended to restrict the application of embodiments described herein to any particular orientation.

The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present disclosure are synonymous.

The term coupled with along with its derivatives may be used herein. Coupled may mean one or more of the following. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical electrical or optical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements indirectly contact each other but yet still cooperate or interact with each other and may mean that one or more other elements are coupled or connected between the elements that are said to be coupled with each other. The term directly coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct contact.

In various embodiments the phrase a first feature formed deposited or otherwise disposed on a second feature may mean that the first feature is formed deposited or disposed over the second feature and at least a part of the first feature may be in direct contact e.g. direct physical and or electrical contact or indirect contact e.g. having one or more other features between the first feature and the second feature with at least a part of the second feature.

The second semiconductor region may include an optical waveguide indicated generally by the region demarcated by the hashed line box. The optical waveguide may be defined by a pair of anti resonance waveguide trenches hereinafter trenches anti resonance waveguide trenches and waveguide trenches will be used interchangeably . In various embodiments anti resonance waveguides may include anti resonance waveguide trenches may be disposed on a first side of the optical waveguide and anti resonance waveguide trenches may be disposed on a second side opposite the first side of the optical waveguide as shown. The waveguide trenches and the anti resonant waveguide trenches may be filled with a gas. In various embodiments the gas may be air an inert gas or other gas. In some embodiments the gas may be any gas that may be trapped in the trenches or during processing. In other embodiments the waveguide trenches and or the anti resonant waveguide trenches may be filled with another low refractive index material such as for example silicon oxide or silicon nitride.

The trenches may provide anti resonant reflection to control the optical mode width while still allowing the optical waveguide to control the overlap of the optical mode with the active region . In various embodiments the trenches may provide additional reflections of the optical mode during operation of the hybrid optical apparatus which may help control the lateral extension of the optical mode.

The second semiconductor region may comprise any suitable material or materials for forming a hybrid optical apparatus. In various embodiments the second semiconductor region may comprise a semiconductor substrate. For example the second semiconductor region may comprise a silicon on insulator substrate comprising a handle substrate a buried insulating layer on the handle substrate and a silicon layer on the buried insulating layer . The buried insulating layer may comprise oxide. In various embodiments the buried insulating layer may comprise sapphire or another suitable insulating material. The handle substrate may comprise silicon such as for example doped silicon. In various embodiments the silicon layer may comprise a device fabrication wafer or epitaxial silicon.

In other implementations the second semiconductor region may be formed using alternate materials which may or may not be combined with silicon that include but are not limited to germanium indium antimonide lead telluride indium arsenide indium phosphide gallium arsenide or gallium antimonide. Further materials classified as group III V or group IV materials may also be used to form the substrate. Although a few examples of materials from which the substrate may be formed are described here any material that may serve as a foundation upon which a semiconductor device may be built falls within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

The active region of the first semiconductor region may be a III V active region including layers of semiconductor materials from group III group IV or group V semiconductor. In various embodiments the active region may include a current channel implanted layers and a multiple quantum well MQW layer . In some embodiments the current channel and the layers and may include different sub layers and may be composed of various materials such as of p type indium gallium arsenide InGaAs p type indium phosphide InP p type aluminum gallium indium arsenide AlGaInAs and the like. The MQW layer may be coupled to the layer which may be composed of n type indium phosphide InP . The layers discussed above may have slight differences in their atomic ratios to tune the exact bandgap according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.

The silicon layer of the second semiconductor region may provide a path of electric current to the contacts or . The layer may extend laterally on either side of the active region to connect with the electrical contacts and the optical waveguide may be formed directly under the layer . In one embodiment trenches formed on the sides of the optical waveguide confine light within the waveguide . The optical waveguide may carry the optical signal to be amplified or detected.

In various embodiments the spacing and or width of the anti resonant waveguide trenches and the waveguide trenches may contribute to reducing the optical leakage loss of the hybrid optical apparatus and or the location of the optical mode. The optical waveguide may have a width configured for providing a suitable optical mode overlap with the active region . In various embodiments the width of the optical waveguide may be about 0.4 m. In various embodiments the trenches and may separated from each other by about 1.0 m i.e. about 1.0 m of the silicon layer separates the waveguide trench from the anti resonant waveguide trench and about 1.0 m of the silicon layer separates the anti resonant waveguide trench from the anti resonant waveguide trench . The other side of the optical waveguide may be similarly configured.

In various embodiments the waveguide trenches may each have a width of about 0.5 m. In other embodiments the waveguide trenches may each have a width of about 3.0 m. In other embodiments the waveguide trenches may each have a width in a range of about 0.5 m to about 3.0 m.

In some embodiments the second semiconductor region may be configured around its respective ends to form first and second mode converters and . Mode converters may be used to convert the optical mode in input light component to the first and second semiconductor regions and and in the first and second semiconductor regions and to an output light component . In some embodiments the mode converters and may be configured to provide connection with the light input component coupled with the apparatus and the light output component coupled with the apparatus as shown in . More specifically the mode converters may be configured to provide desired coupling efficiency between the device and the input and output light components and in order to reduce optical loss. For example the waveguides and trenches of the second semiconductor region may be configured with certain taper design parameters ensuring low loss and low reflection transition of the silicon input guide mode to the gain absorption section and low loss and low reflection transition of the gain absorption section to the silicon output guide mode. For example in some embodiments the widths of the waveguides and and trenches and or may be controlled along the length of the apparatus . For example the waveguides and may be configured to be disposed in the mode converters at determined angles relative to the waveguide e.g. by manipulating the width of respective trenches defining the waveguides as shown in .

In some embodiments the mode converters and may be disposed in the first semiconductor region in addition or in the alternative to the embodiments described in reference to the second semiconductor region . For example the first semiconductor region may be extended to include the mode converters and . More specifically the first semiconductor region may be shaped in a number different ways around its first end and its second end respectively. For example in some embodiments the first semiconductor region may be shaped to taper around its first and second ends and as shown in .

The mode converters and may be configured in different variations not necessarily limited to the embodiments described above. For example the mode converters and disposed in the second semiconductor region may be disposed underneath the tapered ends of the first semiconductor region to provide for simultaneous conversion from the hybrid mode to silicon waveguide mode. In another example the tapered ends of the first semiconductor region may be disposed to precede and succeed respectively the corresponding waveguide portions configured at determined angles relative to the waveguide as described above viewed from the top down providing for subsequent conversion and the like. In some embodiments the hybrid optical apparatus described herein may be used as a hybrid amplifier or hybrid photodetector depending on a bias and other implementation details. For example an embodiment of the apparatus with a forward bias may be implemented as an amplifier and an embodiment of the apparatus with a reverse bias may be implemented as photodetector. In some embodiments the hybrid optical apparatus described herein may be used as a gain section of a hybrid laser. For example an embodiment of the apparatus with distributed Bragg gratings DBR formed outside of the apparatus may be implemented as a hybrid DBR laser.

As shown in the apparatus may be configured differently than the apparatus described above. Specifically a light input component and a light output component may be coupled to the apparatus directly. In other words as shown in the III V layers of the first semiconductor region may be configured to abruptly terminate around the coupling with the light input and output components and . Similarly waveguides and may be terminated around the coupling with the light input and output components and . Such structure may excite high order modes in a gain absorption section of the apparatus compared to the apparatus and the optical losses associated with the apparatus may be higher than ones associated with the apparatus . However due to absence of the mode converters the apparatus may be configured to be smaller in size than the apparatus .

More specifically in some embodiments the apparatus may be configured to amplify the light inputted in the apparatus and passing along the waveguide . To achieve this the trenches may be configured such that their respective widths may be narrow at a first end and gradually widen toward a second end of the gain absorption section of the apparatus as shown in . Such structure of the trenches may provide for keeping the optical power density constant along the apparatus . Widening optical mode through controlling the trench width may balance the optical power density while optical power is amplified along the length of the apparatus . Accordingly higher saturation power may be achieved compared to a constant trench width design of a gain absorption section in in which the optical power density may increase which may cause the saturation of the optical gain near the output of the apparatus .

In some embodiments the shape of the current channel indicated by a dashed line of the gain absorption section of the first semiconductor region may be configured to substantially conform to the varied width of the trenches . For example the shape of the current channel may be tapered in order to substantially conform to the variation of the trench width along the length of the apparatus as shown in .

Referring now to in some embodiments the apparatus may be configured to absorb the light passing along the waveguide and accordingly may serve as a photodetector. For example the width of the air trenches in the apparatus may be configured to be wide around a first end of the gain absorption section and gradually narrow down toward a second end so that their corresponding width around the second end of the apparatus may be narrower than the width around the first end . In other words for the high power detector design of the apparatus the width of the trenches may be configured to gradually become narrower as the optical power decreases along the apparatus due to absorption to reduce the optical mode width accordingly to maintain constant optical power density.

In some embodiments the shape of the current channel indicated by a dashed line of the first semiconductor region may be configured to substantially conform to the varied width of the trenches . For example the shape of the current channel may be tapered as shown in in order to follow the change of optical mode width as described above. In other embodiments the photodetector may contain no implant channel like the current channel .

The method for making the embodiments may include one or more functions operations or actions as is illustrated by blocks and or .

Processing for the method may begin with block where a first semiconductor region may be provided including an active region of one or more layers of semiconductor materials from group III group IV or group V semiconductors.

From block the method may proceed to block where an optical waveguide in a second semiconductor region may be defined by a first trench on a first side of an optical waveguide and a second trench on a second side opposite the first side of the optical waveguide wherein the width of the trenches may vary along the length of the hybrid optical apparatus.

From block the method may proceed to block where optionally a third trench on the first side of the optical waveguide may be formed such that the first trench is between the third trench and the optical waveguide and a fourth trench on the second side of the optical waveguide may be formed such that the second trench is between the fourth trench and the optical waveguide.

From block the method may proceed to block where mode converters may be provided about the ends of the apparatus for example by disposing portions of trenches at determined angles relative to the optical waveguide.

Embodiments of hybrid optical apparatuses and or optical systems described herein may be incorporated into various other apparatuses and systems including but not limited to various computing and or consumer electronic devices appliances.

A system level block diagram of an example system is illustrated in . The hybrid optical apparatuses and or optical systems described herein may be included in one or more of the elements of the system . For example in various implementations the processor the chipset the communication chip and or the I O controller hub may include a hybrid optical apparatus as described herein for communicating with one or more other elements of the system or connected to the system . In various embodiments the system may include more or fewer components and or different architectures than that shown in .

In various implementations the system may be a laptop a netbook a notebook an ultrabook a smartphone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA an ultra mobile PC a mobile phone a desktop computer a server a printer a scanner a monitor a set top box an entertainment control unit a digital camera a portable music player or a digital video recorder. In further implementations the system may be any other electronic device that processes data.

The system may include a communications cluster configured to facilitate communication of the system over one or more networks and or with any other suitable device. The communications cluster may include at least one communication chip and at least one I O controller hub . In some implementations the I O controller hub may be part of the communication chip . In some implementations the communication chip may be part of the processor .

In various embodiments the system may house a motherboard with which the processor and or the communications cluster may be physically and electrically coupled.

Depending on its applications the system may include other components that may or may not be physically and electrically coupled to the mother board. These other components include but are not limited to volatile memory e.g. DRAM non volatile memory e.g. ROM flash memory a graphics processor a digital signal processor a crypto processor a chipset a battery an audio codec a video codec a power amplifier a global positioning system GPS device a compass an accelerometer a gyroscope a speaker a camera an antenna and a mass storage device such as hard disk drive compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD and so forth .

The communication chip may enable wireless communications for the transfer of data to and from the system . The term wireless and its derivatives may be used to describe circuits devices systems methods techniques communications channels etc. that may communicate data through the use of modulated electromagnetic radiation through a non solid medium. The term does not imply that the associated devices do not contain any wires although in some embodiments they might not. The communication chip may implement any of a number of wireless standards or protocols including but not limited to Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 family WiMAX IEEE 802.16 family IEEE 802.20 long term evolution LTE Ev DO HSPA HSDPA HSUPA EDGE GSM GPRS CDMA TDMA DECT Bluetooth derivatives thereof as well as any other wireless protocols that are designated as 2G 3G 4G 5G and beyond. The system may include a plurality of communication chips . For instance a first communication chip may be dedicated to shorter range wireless communications such as Wi Fi and Bluetooth and a second communication chip may be dedicated to longer range wireless communications such as GPS EDGE GPRS CDMA WiMAX LTE Ev DO and others.

The system may include a display device such as for example a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED or other suitable display device. The display device may be a touch screen display supporting touch screen features and in various one of these embodiments the I O controller may include a touchscreen controller. In various embodiments the display device may be a peripheral device interconnected with the system .

The embodiments described herein may be further illustrated by the following examples. Example 1 is hybrid optical apparatus comprising a first semiconductor region including an active region of one or more layers of semiconductor materials and a second semiconductor region coupled with the first semiconductor region wherein the second semiconductor region includes an optical waveguide configured to transmit light inputted by a light input component coupled with the apparatus wherein the optical waveguide is defined by a first trench disposed on a first side of the optical waveguide and a second trench disposed on a second side of the optical waveguide opposite the first side of the optical waveguide wherein a width of each trench varies along a length of the apparatus to control optical power density of the light transmitted along the optical waveguide.

Example 2 may include the subject matter of Example 1 and further specifies that the apparatus is coupled with a light output component configured to output the light transmitted by the optical waveguide.

Example 3 may include the subject matter of Example 1 and further specifies that the active region includes a current channel the current channel comprising a multiple quantum well MQW layer.

Example 4 may include the subject matter of Example 3 and further specifics that the current channel is configured to have a width that substantially conforms to the varied width of the waveguide trenches.

Example 5 may include the subject matter of Example 1 and further specifies that the apparatus includes a first end and a second end wherein the first end includes a light input component and the second end includes a light output component.

Example 6 may include the subject matter of Example 5 and further specifies that the trench width at the first end of the apparatus is narrower than the trench width at the second end of the apparatus wherein the apparatus comprises a hybrid amplifier or a gain section of a hybrid laser.

Example 7 may include the subject matter of Example 5 and further specifies that the trench width at the first end of the apparatus is wider than the trench width at the second end of the apparatus wherein the first and second active regions form a part of a hybrid photodetector.

Example 8 may include the subject matter of Example 1 and further specifies that the second semiconductor region includes a third trench disposed on the first side of the optical waveguide such that the first trench is between the third trench and the optical waveguide and a fourth trench disposed on the second side of the optical waveguide such that the second trench is between the fourth trench and the optical waveguide.

Example 9 may include the subject matter of Example 1 and further specifies that the semiconductor materials are selected from group III group IV or group V semiconductors.

Example 10 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 1 to 9 and further specifies that a layer of the first semiconductor region is directly bonded with a layer of the second semiconductor region wherein the layer of the first semiconductor region is composed of indium phosphide and wherein the layer of the second semiconductor region is composed of silicon.

Example 11 may include the subject matter of Example 8 and further specifies that the apparatus further comprises a first mode converter component comprising a first extension of the second semiconductor region and configured to couple the second semiconductor region with the light input component wherein the trenches are configured to extend into the first mode converter component at determined respective first angles relative to the optical waveguide.

Example 12 may include the subject matter of Example 11 and further specifies that the apparatus further comprises a second mode converter component comprising a second extension of the second semiconductor region and configured to couple the second semiconductor region with a light output component coupled with the apparatus and configured to output the light transmitted by the optical waveguide wherein the trenches are configured to extend into the second mode converter component at determined respective second angles relative to the optical waveguide.

Example 13 may include the subject matter of Example 12 and further specifies that the first and second mode converters further comprise first and second extensions of the first semiconductor region and are configured such that respective shapes of the first and second extensions are tapered toward an end of a respective extension.

Example 14 is a system including at least one hybrid optical apparatus wherein the hybrid optical apparatus comprises a first semiconductor region including an active region of one or more layers of semiconductor materials a second semiconductor region coupled with the first semiconductor region wherein the second semiconductor region includes an optical waveguide configured to transmit light inputted by a light input component coupled with the apparatus wherein the optical waveguide is defined by a first trench disposed on a first side of the optical waveguide and a second trench disposed on a second side of the optical waveguide opposite the first side of the optical waveguide wherein the second semiconductor region includes at least one mode converter component configured to couple the second semiconductor region with the light input component wherein the trenches are configured to extend into the mode converter component at determined angles relative to the optical waveguide.

Example 15 may include the subject matter of Example 14 and further specifies that the hybrid optical apparatus is coupled with a light output component configured to output the light transmitted by the optical waveguide wherein the second semiconductor region includes another mode converter component configured to couple the second semiconductor region with the light output component wherein the trenches are configured to extend into the another mode converter component at determined angles relative to the optical waveguide.

Example 16 may include the subject matter of Example 15 and further specifies that the apparatus comprises a hybrid amplifier hybrid photodetector or a gain section of a hybrid laser.

Example 17 may include the subject matter of Example 14 and further specifies that the second semiconductor region includes a third trench disposed on the first side of the optical waveguide such that the first trench is between the third trench and the optical waveguide and a fourth trench disposed on the second side of the optical waveguide such that the second trench is between the fourth trench and the optical waveguide.

Example 18 may include the subject matter of Example 14 and further specifies that the semiconductor materials are selected from group III group IV or group V semiconductors.

Example 19 may include the subject matter of Example 14 and further specifies that a width of each trench varies along a length of the apparatus in order to control optical power density of the light transmitted along the optical waveguide.

Example 20 may include the subject matter of Example 19 and further specifies that the active region includes a current channel configured to have a width that substantially conforms to the varied width of the waveguide trenches.

Example 21 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 14 20 and further specifies that the system is a selected one of a laptop a netbook a notebook an ultrabook a smartphone a tablet a personal digital assistant an ultra mobile PC a mobile phone a desktop computer a server a printer a scanner a monitor a set top box an entertainment control unit a digital camera a portable music player or a digital video recorder.

Example 22 is a method for making a hybrid optical apparatus comprising forming a first semiconductor region including an active region of one or more layers of semiconductor materials from group III group IV or group V semiconductors and forming a first trench and a second trench in a second semiconductor region coupled with the first semiconductor region the first trench disposed opposite the second trench an optical waveguide the first and second trenches defining an optical waveguide disposed between the trenches wherein the forming includes varying a width of the trenches along a length of the hybrid optical apparatus to control optical power density of light transmitted along the optical waveguide.

Example 23 may include the subject matter of Example 22 and further specifies that the method further comprises forming a third trench on a first side of the optical waveguide such that the first trench is between the third trench and the optical waveguide and forming a fourth trench on a second side of the optical waveguide such that the second trench is between the fourth trench and the optical waveguide.

Example 24 may include the subject matter of Example 22 and further specifies that the method further comprises extending portions of the trenches about respective ends of the second semiconductor region along the length of the hybrid optical apparatus wherein extending includes disposing the extended portions of the trenches at determined angles relative to the optical waveguide.

Example 25 may include the subject matter of Example 22 and further specifies that the method further comprises shaping the first semiconductor region so as to taper respective ends of the first semiconductor region.

Various operations are described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented into a system using any suitable hardware and or software to configure as desired.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for purposes of description a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments described herein be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

