---

title: Irrigation management
abstract: A system and method for providing irrigation management services is disclosed. The system may include a plurality of controllers, where each controller controls application of water by an irrigation system associated with the controller. A central computer that is remote from each of the controllers may be configured to implement an irrigation management plan that is individualized to each location and based, at least in part, upon one or more characteristics of the location as determined by an on-site visit. The irrigation manager may guarantee that the system will provide a return on investment within a predefined period of time. The system may also detect faults in the irrigation systems using water usage data from the controllers and diagnose the faults. A technician may be notified and dispatched to repair the faults.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307706&OS=09307706&RS=09307706
owner: Smart Rain Systems, LLC
number: 09307706
owner_city: Centerville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130521
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 649 824 by Rudy Lars Larsen and entitled IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT filed May 21 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to irrigation management and more specifically to systems and methods for providing remote irrigation management of one or more facilities.

Water is becoming an increasingly scarce resource. This increasing scarcity is pressuring consumers and governments alike to consider how they use water and how they can use it more wisely. The costs of water are also increasing as a result of scarcity and businesses are under pressure to reduce costs associated with using water.

Many businesses and users need water to maintain the grounds of their business facilities and their residences. Some estimates posit that landscape irrigation accounts for nearly one third of all residential water use and totals almost nine billion gallons per day. Much of that water is wasted due to inefficient irrigation methods and systems.

As a result water users are looking for options to reduce water usage without negatively impacting their landscape. However doing so often requires expertise in landscape irrigation and may require expensive equipment. Furthermore some water users are unsure whether they will ever recoup the investment they make in the system. Many water users forgo the benefits of more sophisticated irrigation systems and waste water as a result.

Disclosed herein is a method and system for providing irrigation management services. In one embodiment the method involves visiting a first property having an irrigation system identifying one or more characteristics of the first property that affect water usage and developing an irrigation management plan for the property using the characteristics.

The method may also involve determining a value of irrigation management services at the first property. The irrigation manager may charge a fixed amount for the irrigation management services over a predetermined period of time. The irrigation manager may calculate an irrigation water cost savings for the predetermined period and determine a guaranteed maximum charge for the predetermined period of time by multiplying the irrigation water cost savings by a guaranteed rate. If the fixed amount exceeds the guaranteed maximum charge the irrigation manager may refund or credit a difference between the fixed amount and the guaranteed maximum charge to the property owner or property manager.

The method may also involve communicatively connecting the controller for the irrigation system to a central computer at a remote location. The central computer may be communicatively connected with a plurality of second controllers that are associated with other irrigation systems installed at numerous other properties. The central computer may implement the irrigation management plan remotely using the controller. The method may also involve continually monitoring the water usage at the first property and at the other properties using water usage data communicated to the central computer from the controllers and in response to the water usage data from the controller indicating a fault in the irrigation system diagnosing the fault using the water usage data and dispatching a technician to the property to repair the fault in the irrigation system.

The method may also involve dynamically adjusting the irrigation management plan from the remote computer based on factors such as forecasted rain forecasted temperatures high winds and other weather related events that may affect the irrigation management plan and facilitate water conservation.

Also disclosed herein is a system for providing irrigation management services. The system may include a plurality of controllers that control application of water by the irrigation system associated with the controller. The system may also include a central computer that is remote from each of the controllers and that is in communication with each of the controllers. The central computer may be configured to implement an irrigation management plan that is individualized to the location and based at least in part upon one or more characteristics of the location as determined by an on site visit. The irrigation management plan may be guaranteed by the irrigation manager to provide a return on investment within a predefined period of time. The central computer may also detect faults in the irrigation systems using water usage data from the controllers associated with the irrigation system run user defined tests to diagnose the one or more faults in the irrigation systems and notify a technician of the faults. The technician may then be dispatched to repair the faults on site.

Other aspects as well as features and advantages of various aspects of the present invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art though consideration of the ensuing description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

Referring in general to the accompanying drawings various embodiments of the present invention are illustrated to show the structure and methods for an irrigation system. Common elements of the illustrated embodiments are designated with like numerals. It should be understood that the figures presented are not meant to be illustrative of actual views of any particular portion of the actual device structure but are merely schematic representations which are employed to more clearly and fully depict embodiments of the invention.

The following provides a more detailed description of ways to implement the present invention and various representative embodiments thereof. In this description functions may be shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the present disclosure in unnecessary detail. Additionally block definitions and partitioning of logic between various blocks is exemplary of a specific implementation. It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced by numerous other solutions. For the most part details concerning timing considerations and the like have been omitted where such details are not necessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present invention and are within the abilities of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

In this description some drawings may illustrate signals as a single signal for clarity of presentation and description. It will be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art that the signal may represent a bus of signals wherein the bus may have a variety of bit widths and the present invention may be implemented on any number of data signals including a single data signal.

An irrigation management system includes a central computer in communication with a plurality of individual remotely located irrigation systems and . Each irrigation system and may include a controller for controlling the application of water by the irrigation system and at one or more stations corresponding to a particular portion or area of the irrigated landscape. The first irrigation system may be owned by a first entity such as a property manager or business while the second irrigation system may be owned by a second entity that is separate from the first entity. For example each irrigation system and may be for an office park owned by a different entity. In one embodiment multiple irrigation systems such as irrigation systems and are for properties that are commonly owned. For example a commercial leasing company may own physically separate commercial leasing properties within a particular city.

The central computer may be a server accessible using the Internet. While illustrates the central computer as a single computing device in certain embodiments the central computer may be a plurality of separate computing devices working together to provide the features described herein. In another embodiment the central computer is a desktop computing device running software to implement the methods described herein. In one embodiment the central computer is part of a system executing Rain Bird Corporation s IQ irrigation central control system.

The central computer also includes a user interface that allows users to access one or more functions of the central computer . The user interface may be a graphical user interface GUI that runs on the central computer and allows a user to interact with the central computer through a keyboard mouse or other input device. In another embodiment the user interface is a web implemented user interface that allows users to access the central computer and its functionality from a separate computing device such as a desktop computer or laptop using browser software. The user interface may also include one or more application programming interfaces APIs that allow one or more computer programs to access the functionality of the central computer .

The central computer may store specific information about each irrigation system and . Such information may include specific information about each station in the irrigation system e.g. the type s of valves the number and type s of sprinkler heads on each station etc. . In addition the central computer may store information on the area topography and type s of landscaping covered by each station of the irrigation system and .

The central computer may also communicate with one or more controllers of each irrigation system and . The controllers may communicate with the central computer using communications links and respectively. The communications links may be wired communications links such as telephone or Ethernet connections wireless communications links such as Wi Fi cellular or other or a combination thereof. The controllers may communicate information with the central computer using an appropriate communications protocol such as TCP IP. Each controller may communicate water flow information from each station of the irrigation system and . In addition the central computer may be configured to receive information about the amount s of non irrigation water e.g. precipitation water from nearby sources etc. to which one or more parts of the landscape and to which each station of the irrigation system corresponds is exposed. Such information may be collected in any suitable manner known in the art e.g. with automated rain sensors etc. .

In some embodiments the central computer may also collect climate information. The climate information may include weather forecast information e.g. temperatures at various times of the day humidity forecast cloud cover forecast precipitation forecast etc. and or real time weather data e.g. current temperature current humidity current cloud cover current precipitation and up to date precipitation levels etc. . Other types of information may also be stored and or collected by the central computer .

The central computer may be programmed to monitor irrigation at one or more stations of a remote irrigation system and . Irrigation monitoring may include receipt of a flow signal from a monitored station and or a monitored irrigation system and . When flow information used in conjunction with information about the types of sprinkler heads or other components of that station the computer may determine the amount of irrigation i.e. volume of water applied by that station. When considered in conjunction with an optimal irrigation level which may determined by a landscape professional and input into the computer and in some embodiments modified based on other criteria such as recent current or forecast weather etc. for that station the computer may determine how the actual amount of irrigation applied by the station compares to the optimal irrigation level. In some embodiments real time irrigation monitoring may occur and when the optimal irrigation level by a particular station is reached the central computer may automatically terminate irrigation by that station. In other embodiments any discrepancy or any discrepancy beyond acceptable ranges may then be output by the central computer used by the central computer to calculate and output a recommendation on modification of at least one future irrigation program for that station e.g. if overwatering has occurred reduce the next watering time etc. and or used by the central computer to calculate and automatically modify at least one future irrigation program for that station.

In addition the central computer may be configured to provide an output indicative of potential problems with a monitored irrigation system or a station of a monitored irrigation system and . For example if the central computer determines that the amount of irrigation applied to landscaping by a particular station of a monitored irrigation system and exceeds irrigation that would have been applied if the station were operating normally the central computer may be programmed to output a warning that there may be a leak a bad sprinkler head or other component or some other problem with that station. Similarly the central computer may be programmed to output a warning if a flow sensor associated with a particular station continues to monitor water flow while the station is supposed to be turned off as continued water flow may be indicative of a faulty valve.

In addition the central computer may collect information external to the operation of a monitored irrigation system such as weather or other climate information evaporation information transpiration information or the like. With that external information the central computer may be programmed to adjust or modify a preprogrammed optimal irrigation amount and or to determine and output and or automatically implement modifications to programming for the monitored irrigation system and .

The central computer may also be configured to implement an irrigation management plan that includes irrigation programs for each of the stations in the irrigation system. The irrigation management plans may be unique to each irrigation system and . In other embodiments the irrigation management plans for like irrigation systems i.e. those with similar landscapes are the same. The central computer may communicate the irrigation management plan to the controllers for each of the irrigation systems and which controls then implement the irrigation management plan at the location.

In addition to including a central computer and a plurality of remote irrigation systems and an irrigation management system of the present invention may include one or more mobile devices that communicate with the central computer . Each mobile device may comprise a portable electronic device of a type known in the art such as a smart phone a tablet computer or the like. The mobile device may be programmed to receive and display notifications regarding each monitored irrigation system and from the central computer and in some embodiments including embodiments where the central computer automatically controls the monitored irrigation systems and and embodiments where the central computer does not automatically control the monitored irrigation system and to enable remote control over each monitored irrigation system and either through the central computer or directly.

In one embodiment applications for mobile devices may also be configured to receive reports from the central computer . For example the property owner may have a mobile device with an application for receiving reports concerning water usage from the central computer . Where the property owner has multiple properties managed by the irrigation manager the property owner may be able to consolidate reports for the multiple properties.

In another embodiment the client may be able to enter commands for the controller into the application which commands are sent to a controller. The client may be able to override the irrigation management plan using the application. The client may for example cause the controller to perform extra watering for a particular station using the application on the mobile device. The application may be configured to send information concerning water usage above the irrigation management plan originating from the client to the central computer . The central computer may track the amount of water outside of the irrigation management plan applied at the client s direction. The central computer may report such usage to the irrigation manager who can take such information into account in determining the cost effect of client directed watering and its effect on the cost recovery guarantee. The central computer may similarly track client directed watering events that are initiated from the controller . The irrigation manager may ensure that such usage does not count towards a guaranteed return on investment provided by the irrigation manager.

In one embodiment an irrigation manager visits the property with the irrigation system to perform an initial site visit. At the site visit the irrigation manager may review the current water usage and pattern set by the controller . The irrigation manager may also identify one or more characteristics of the property that affect water usage on the property. For example the irrigation manager may note the plant material being watered by each station whether flowers shrubs grass or other the soil composition at the first property and or at the individual areas served by the stations and the climate at the first property. For example the irrigation manager may note that the climate is arid if the property is located in a desert location. Other examples of characteristics the irrigation manager may note include the slope of the area associated with each station the degree of exposure to sun and heat and the health of the plant material under the current water application system.

In other embodiments the irrigation system may also include sensors that detect and collect irrigation related data. The irrigation system may include for example temperature sensors moisture sensors rain sensors and others. The sensors may communicate the data they collect to the controller . The controller may send this sensor data to the central computer .

The controller may execute the irrigation management plan from the central computer which irrigation management plan is individualized to the location of the irrigation system . The irrigation management plan may be guaranteed by the irrigation manager providing the irrigation management services to provide a return on investment within a predefined period of time. As explained below the fee charged by the irrigation manager may be determined by estimating the water cost savings over a predetermined period of time such as a year or an N month period corresponding to the irrigation season allocating between two thirds and one third of the estimated water cost savings over the predetermined period of time to the client and setting the fee equal to the remaining water costs savings over the predetermined period of time.

The central computer may receive the water usage data from the controller and detect one or more faults in the irrigation system using that water usage data. The central computer may also run one or more user defined tests to diagnose the faults in the irrigation system . The central computer may do so by first confirming that a fault exists and then by determining the fault type i.e. what has failed to cause the fault . For example if during watering the controller reports excess water flow the central computer may stop all watering at the stations and continue to monitor the flow. If a flow is detected even when all watering is stopped the test may indicate that the fault type is a break in the pipe. If no flow is detected the central computer may water each station at one minute intervals and monitor the water usage by each station to identify which stations have a fault causing the excess water flow. Other tests for diagnosing faults in the irrigation system may also be used. The central computer may also notify a technician of the faults allowing the technician to be dispatched to repair the faults. The central computer may also determine the amount of water actually lost by the fault and the amount of water likely to be lost due to the fault.

In certain embodiments the central computer may be configured to automatically retrieve water usage information for the irrigation system as recorded by the relevant water authority. For example the central computer may be configured to retrieve water usage information from a website for the local water authority. The client may be required to provide the central computer with appropriate credentials to allow the central computer to access the client s water usage information. In another embodiment the irrigation manager may manually enter the water usage information as provided by the local water authority. The central computer may compare the water usage information as reported by the water authority with the water usage information reported by the controller . If the reported water usage information differ by a threshold amount the central computer may report the discrepancy to the irrigation manager who may further calibrate the controller and water usage measurement tools at the irrigation site .

While illustrates a master valve and a flow sensor as separate elements in certain embodiments the master valve and the flow sensor may be realized as part of the same unit. The system may also include a backflow preventer to prevent water from flowing out of the irrigation system and into the main water line .

In some embodiments an irrigation manager may at reference numeral charge a fixed amount for the irrigation services over a period of time. The fixed amount may be a periodic e.g. monthly annual etc. fee. That periodic fee may be based on a percentage e.g. 90 75 etc. of the expected savings in irrigation water costs. Thus the method may also include at reference numeral calculating an irrigation water cost savings for a predetermined period of time. In some embodiments the periodic fee may be adjusted e.g. annually etc. based upon a difference between expected irrigation needs and real irrigation needs for the most recent period of time. Alternatively the periodic fee may be adjusted based on expected or forecast weather conditions for an upcoming period of time.

In some embodiments the irrigation manager may actually guarantee that the cost of irrigation management will not exceed a fixed percentage e.g. 90 75 etc. of the savings realized in irrigation water costs. The irrigation manager may at reference numeral determine a guaranteed maximum charge for the predetermined period of time by multiplying the irrigation water cost savings by a guaranteed rate. For example if the irrigation manager provides services that save 1000 in irrigation costs one month the irrigation manager may guarantee that its services for that month will not exceed 90 of that savings i.e. 900.

The irrigation manager may provide the party receiving the services with refunds or credits. At reference numeral if the fixed amount exceeds the guaranteed maximum charge the irrigation manager may refund or credit a difference between the fixed amount and the guaranteed maximum charge. For example if the irrigation manager guarantees that its charges will not exceed a fixed percentage e.g. 90 etc. of the savings in irrigation water costs but the irrigation manager charges a fixed monthly amount e.g. 1 000 etc. for irrigation management services and the irrigation manager s charges for that month exceed the fixed percentage of the savings in irrigation water costs for that month e.g. 90 1 000 900 etc. the irrigation manager may refund or credit the difference e.g. 100 etc. . As another example partial refunds or credits may be provided in circumstances where expected water savings or a predetermined percentage thereof e.g. 90 75 etc. were not realized. If a party receiving the irrigation manager s services pays a monthly fee of f based on an expected monthly savings of sE and the actual savings for that month was less than 90 of sE i.e. 0.9 sE the irrigation manager may refund or credit ten percent 10 of the fee for that month to the party that receives the irrigation manager s services.

In one embodiment the irrigation manager installs the irrigation system at no charge in exchange for the client agreeing to use the irrigation management services for a predetermined length of time sufficient for the irrigation manager to recoup the cost of the investment. In another embodiment the irrigation manager upgrades the irrigation system with one or more components to enable communications with the central computer as described above at no charge in exchange for the client agreeing to use the irrigation management services for a predetermined period of time. Such an approach may allow property owners and managers who may otherwise forgo the benefits of remote irrigation management due to the upfront cost to benefit.

The method may also involve at reference numeral developing an irrigation management plan for the first property using the one or more characteristics. The irrigation management plan specifies how much water is to be applied and the manner in which the water is applied. The irrigation management plan may tailor water application to the characteristics of the individual stations of the irrigation system. Thus for example a station watering an area located on a hill may water in 5 minute intervals to allow the water to sufficiently soak in without losing water to run off caused by saturation while a flower bed may be watered for a ten minute period with no intervals.

In certain embodiments the irrigation manager may make changes to the stations conducive to implementing the irrigation management plan. For example the irrigation manager may swap out a first sprinkler head for a second sprinkler head with a different flow rate add or remove sprinkler heads from the irrigation system and make other appropriate changes to maximize the effectiveness of the irrigation management plan.

The method may include at reference numeral determining the value of the irrigation management services at the first property. In one embodiment this is done according to the method shown in and discussed above.

The method may include at reference numeral communicatively connecting the controller that controls application of water by the irrigation system with the central computer that is located in a remote location. The central computer may for example be located at the offices of the irrigation manager in a server facility or other location that is remote from the location of the irrigation system. The central computer may also be communicatively connected to a plurality of second controllers installed at a plurality of second properties that are owned by entities separate from the entity that owns the first property. The owners of the second properties may have also contracted with the irrigation manager for irrigation services. The irrigation manager may provide the above services to various separate property owners.

Once the central computer is communicatively connected to the controller the method may involve at reference numeral implementing the irrigation management plan for the first property from the central computer . In one embodiment this involves the irrigation manager inputting the irrigation management plan that is customized for the first property into the central computer . The central computer may then communicate that irrigation management plan to the controller for the irrigation system installed at the first property. In one embodiment the central computer transmits a schedule for irrigation which is received stored and implemented by the controller. The central computer may transmit changes to the irrigation management plan thereafter. In another embodiment the central computer transmits individual commands that cause water to be applied according to the irrigation management plan which commands are executed by the controller. For example the central computer may send a command at 8 00 at night to water station one for ten minutes. In another embodiment the central computer transmits the schedule and maintains the ability to override the schedule with individual commands sent to the controller.

The method may also involve at reference numeral continually monitoring water usage at the first property by the irrigation system using water usage data communicated to the central computer from the controller. The water usage data may include for example the flow rate as measured by the flow sensor the time periods in which water was applied identifiers for the stations to which the water is being applied and other water usage data. The water usage data may also include sensor data related to water application for example the water usage data may include temperature data moisture sensor readings and other sensor data from sensors in communication with the controller .

The method may also include at reference numeral diagnosing faults in the irrigation system in response to the water usage data indicating a fault has occurred. For example if the flow sensor detects water flows when the water is supposed to be turned off the flow may indicate a break in the irrigation system pipes. In another embodiment the central computer may determine that more water than expected was applied to a particular station during the watering interval for that station. The central computer may alert the irrigation manager that the water amount applied to a particular station was outside tolerance levels for the system and the irrigation manager may diagnose the problem as a broken sprinkler head. In another embodiment a moisture sensor may indicate a below expected moisture reading after watering. The irrigation manager may diagnose the problem as a blocked sprinkler head.

The method may include at reference numeral dispatching a technician to the first property to repair the fault in the irrigation system. As a result the fault in the irrigation system can be quickly detected and repaired without causing unnecessary loss of water or damage to the landscape due to over watering or under watering. Furthermore the fault can be quickly repaired without inconvenience to the property owner.

In one embodiment the central computer sends one or more commands that shut the master valve thus preventing flow of water from the main water line into the irrigation system in response to detecting a break in the pipe of the irrigation system. The central computer may be configured to send the commands automatically upon detecting a water usage data indicative of broken pipe. In other embodiments a technician manually sends the commands to shut the master valve .

Where the fault is a broken component in one particular station of the irrigation system the central computer may send one or more commands to the controller causing the controller not to distribute water using the station with the broken irrigation component. For example if a station has a broken sprinkler head causing excess water to flow the central computer may cause the controller to continue implementing the irrigation management plan but to skip the station with the broken sprinkler head. As above modifying the irrigation management plan to stop watering from the station with the broken irrigation component may be automated by the central computer or such a modification to the irrigation management plan may be implemented by a technician.

In one embodiment the technician dispatched to the location to repair the fault in the irrigation system may be provided with a diagnosis of the fault. As a result the technician may determine the appropriate equipment to repair the fault the severity of the fault and the time necessary to repair the fault using the water usage data. As a result a technician s time may be used more effectively and predictably.

The technician may provide a repair notification to the central computer in response to repairing the fault in the irrigation system . In one embodiment the technician uses a mobile device such as a cellular phone to communicate that the repair is complete. The central computer may resume the normal irrigation management plan in response to receiving the notification. In certain embodiments the technician can send commands to the controller using the mobile device as described above. The technician may send commands to the controller causing the controller to use the repaired faulty section of the irrigation system in order to confirm that the repair is effective.

In one embodiment the irrigation manager may use a mobile application to enter the irrigation management plan while on site. For example the irrigation manager may for each station in the irrigation system enter a watering time and duration into the mobile application. Once the irrigation manager completes entry of the irrigation management plan the application may transmit the irrigation management plan to the central computer . The central computer may receive the irrigation management plan and save it for later execution.

Similarly in one embodiment the irrigation manager may set the irrigation management plan using the controller for the irrigation system. The irrigation manager may enter the watering time and duration along with other aspects of the irrigation management plan into the controller. The irrigation manager may enter a code to cause the irrigation management plan to transmit to the central computer and to be saved by the central computer as the irrigation management plan for the irrigation system.

In one embodiment the method involves assigning a severity to the fault and assigning a time frame for response. The severity of the fault may be calculated by determining how much water will be wasted if the fault is not fixed immediately and the impact on the plant material if the fault is not fixed immediately. For example a broken pipe that cannot be controlled by shutting the master valve may be assigned a highest priority. A faulty sprinkler head causing reduced water distribution in an area with low water needs may be assigned a lowest priority.

The time frame for the response may be based at least in part upon the severity of the fault and a weather forecast for the area comprising the irrigation system. For example a severe fault such as a broken gushing pipe may require an immediate response. If a broken sprinkler head is detected upon completion of a watering cycle and the water cycle repeats every three days the time frame may be set for three days. If rain is in the forecast which rain will further delay application of water the time frame may be extended to the next time the station with the broken sprinkler head will run.

In certain embodiments the method may also involve regular visits to the irrigation system location by the irrigation manager or a technician to verify the effectiveness of the irrigation management plan. The irrigation manager may for example confirm that the plant material is receiving sufficient water to facilitate strong growth and development and to ensure that plant material is not suffering from overwatering. The irrigation manager may make adjustments to the irrigation management plan based on the results of the physical inspection.

In one embodiment the central computer is further configured to execute a pre season test pattern at each irrigation system in communication with the central computer . In such an embodiment the central computer may prior to the start of the season where irrigation is necessary run tests on each station within each irrigation system to diagnose and identify problems. For example the central computer may cause each station to run for 30 seconds and monitor the water usage of each station. The central computer may generate a diagnostic report of problems detected during the testing. The irrigation manager may then go to the site to perform pre season repairs an maintenance however the irrigation manager may be able to spend less time inspecting each sprinkler and or station at the site since the irrigation manager will have already been notified of existing faults.

Although the foregoing description contains many specifics these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention or of any of the appended claims but merely as providing information pertinent to some specific embodiments that may fall within the scopes of the invention and the appended claims. Features from different embodiments may be employed in combination. In addition other embodiments of the invention may also be devised which lie within the scopes of the invention and the appended claims. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated and limited only by the appended claims and their legal equivalents. All additions deletions and modifications to the invention as disclosed herein that fall within the meaning and scopes of the claims are to be embraced by the claims.

