---

title: Systems, methods and apparatus for dynamic content management and delivery
abstract: Systems, methods and apparatus are disclosed for linking virtual content to various types of object, such a static physical objects, through the use of triggers of varying formats. The virtual content can be updated by a content curator over time. The virtual content can be translated into a plurality of languages and can be selectively transmitted to a mobile communications device upon receipt of the trigger.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092442&OS=09092442&RS=09092442
owner: Globili LLC
number: 09092442
owner_city: Cincinnati
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130613
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 672 108 filed on Nov. 8 2012 entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR DYNAMIC CONTENT MANAGEMENT AND DELIVERY which claims priority to the disclosures of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 558 215 entitled COMPUTER BASED TRANSLATION OF VISUAL ITEMS UTILIZING MESSAGING CODES AND TWO DIMENSIONAL CODES filed Nov. 10 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 641 595 entitled COMPUTER BASED TRANSLATION OF VISUAL ITEMS UTILIZING MESSAGING CODES TWO DIMENSIONAL CODES AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATION filed May 2 2012 the disclosures of which are all incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Machine based translation of text documents web pages and the like have been popular since the late 1990 s. With the introduction of Babelfish Google Translate Wordlingo Freetranslation and other web based translation services people can obtain translations of text with an acceptable degree of accuracy.

The presently disclosed system and methods can generally allow for the management and delivery of content. The content sometimes referred to as virtual content can be associated with or otherwise relate to an object. In some embodiments the object is a physical object such as a sign advertisement person map nametag luggage tag business card packaging document product or other suitable physical object. In other embodiments the associated object is not necessarily a physical object but instead is a geographical location an audio waveform or other non tangible object for example. The content which can be provided by a content curator for example can include any suitable types of media such as image content text content audio content video content and combinations thereof. Once the content has been supplied to the system the content can be updated or otherwise manipulated over time by the content curator or other affiliated parties. Thus while the object associated with the content may be considered static the curated content stored by the system can generally be considered to be dynamic content. 

In accordance with the systems and methods described herein various parts of the content supplied by the content curator such as the text based portion of the content can be translated into a variety of different languages. Any suitable translation technique can be utilized to translate the text based portion of the content including human based translation and machine based translation. The machine based translation can be performed locally at the system or by a remote system such as through application programming interface API calls. In any event each translation of the content can be stored by the system for subsequent transmission to a mobile communication device. In some embodiments subsequent to the translation the content curator can further modify the translated content and store the modified translated content. For example the originally supplied content may include colloquialisms that do not translate accurately to other languages through conventional machine based translations. The content curator which includes its agents affiliates partners representatives and so forth can selectively alter the translation for one or more of the language translations so that the translated message would adequately convey the content in that particular language. Altering the translations can also be used to address regional based distinctions. For example a product may be offered under a first trademark in the United States but offered under a second trademark in Europe. For the curated content associated with that product in Europe the translation for the European languages can be changed to include the second trademark.

One or more triggers can be associated with or otherwise tied to the content stored by the system. As described in more detail below a wide variety of different trigger types can be utilized by the system. One or more triggers can be assigned to the various content stored by the system. By way of example upon entry of content into the system by the content curator a corresponding trigger can be generated by the system and an indication of the trigger can be provided to the content curator. In some embodiments for example a short message service SMS code an image of a bar code or quick response QR code can be generated by the system and provided to the content curator. In other embodiments the trigger can be provided in other formats. In some embodiments the trigger is based on biometric data received from a user such as a biometric code or genetic information of the user such as a genetic code . In any event that trigger can then be associated with an object such as by attaching the trigger to the object printing the trigger on the object embedding the trigger in the object or any other suitable association technique.

As described in more detail below a user operating a mobile communications device in proximity to that object can transmit the trigger to the system. Upon receipt of the trigger the system can cross reference the received trigger to its associated content stored by the system. That content can then be provided to the mobile communications device through network communications so that it can be viewed by the user of the mobile communications device. The content can be provided in any suitable format such via a text message an email message a webpage in a web browser a multimedia message an instant message and the like.

The presently disclosed system and methods can also beneficially allow the user of a mobile communications device to receive a version of the content that has been translated into a different language so that the user can readily comprehend the content. The preferred language of the user can be ascertained by the system using any of a variety of techniques. In one embodiment upon receipt of a trigger from a mobile communications device a language list is sent to the mobile communications device. The language list may identify all of the different languages in which content can be delivered and request that the user select one of the languages. Alternatively the language list may merely identify a subset of all of the different languages in which content can be delivered and request the user select one language. The particular languages in the subset can be determined for example based on an identifier that was received from the mobile communications device. The identifier can be for example a country code or other type of geographic identifier a telephone number or an IP address. In any event upon receiving the selected language from the user content that has been translated in the selected language can be delivered to the mobile communications device.

As is to be appreciated the presently disclosed systems and methods can be implemented in a variety of environments industries and applications. One example industry is the travel hospitality industry. Utilizing the systems and methods disclosed herein people traveling to foreign speaking locations can receive relevant up to date information delivered to their mobile communications device that has been translated into the traveler s native language. Triggers can be associated with objects and or environments in which a traveler would likely encounter during a trip. As it to be appreciated any suitable objects can be associated with one or more triggers but example objects include menus signage advertisements and so forth. The triggers can be placed in environments that travelers would typically encounter such as train stations airports cruise ships public transportation stations hotels resorts and so forth. Other non limiting examples of environments industries and or applications that can benefit from the systems and methods described herein include hospitals stadiums grocery stores casinos tourist attractions theme parks historical attractions and any other places likely to have international travelers.

In some embodiments analytics pertaining to users interaction with the system is stored so that reporting can be provided to the content curator or other interested parties. Stored Information can include for example the triggers that were sent by the user the content that was sent to the user language preferences time date stamps locations of the triggers mobile communications device information user identification information and so forth. As it to be appreciated such stored information could be of great interest to a variety of entities. Such information can allow a country s tourism board for example to track the travel patterns of users speaking that country s language. Through analysis of the data received and stored by the system it could be determined that travelers speaking a certain German dialect tend to visit a particular area in Chicago tend to stay in a particular chain of hotels and tend to visit the United States in the fall and Australia in the spring for example.

Through analysis of the data received and stored by the system targeted deals advertisements or other offerings can be sent to particular mobile communications devices. For example it may be determined that a particular user has sent a high number of triggers that are associated with a particular hotel chain. The hotel chain can deduce the user is a frequent guest of the hotel and can send to the user a promotional offer in recognition of the user s brand loyalty. In some embodiments a user associated with the mobile communications device can maintain a user account. Through the user account the user can view the content received based on various trigger transmissions set language preferences receive offers or deals and otherwise manage their account. Through this user account the user can also supply a variety of demographic related data such as age gender and so forth which can be used by the system to further analytical purposes. In some embodiments the user can also store data within their account related to their loyalty cards and or rewards cards that are typically offered by retail establishments. This additional user related information can be used by the system for analytical purposes.

The presently disclosed system and methods can also allow for multi language messaging between two or more users with substantially real time translation. As described in more detail below a first user interacting with the system can supply a message that is typed in a first language and direct the message to a second user. The system can receive the message translate the message into a second language i.e. a language comprehendible by the second user and supply the translated message to the second user. The second user can reply to the translated message by typing a message using their native language and send it through the system to the first user. The system will translate the message to the first language so that the first user can read the message. During the messaging session each user can be interacting with a software application that is being executed locally on the user s respective mobile communications device. The application can present a virtual keyboard to each user that has a character set that is specific to the user s language of choice. In some embodiments the messaging session is hosted through a web based interface with virtual keyboards being provided through the web browser.

Such multi language messaging can be implemented in a wide variety of environments or contexts. For example participants at an international event can each be associated with a trigger such as by a barcode or number printed on their nametag or printed in a brochure or program for example . A first participant wanting to communicate with a second participant can identify the desired recipient of the message by transmitting the recipient s trigger to the system. Upon receiving the trigger and the associated message the system can translate the message into the language associated with the recipient. That language could have been identified earlier by the recipient such as via the recipient s user account or the system can send a language list to the recipient and request the recipient select a preferred language. In any event the first participant and the second participant can then exchange text based communications with each communication written in the participants native language and translated in substantially real time.

Multi language messaging can also be implemented for example in the hospitality sector. A trigger can be positioned in a hotel room with an indication that the hotel guest can communicate with the front desk staff through activation of the trigger. Thus a hotel guest who might not speak the language of the front desk staff can interact with the front desk staff through multi language messaging. The hotel guest can for example send a text message with the indicated trigger to the system. The text message can be typed by the guest in their native language. The system will receive the message and translate the message into a language associated with the front desk staff. The message can then be delivered to a computing device associated with the front desk staff. The front desk staff can respond to the communication which can then be translated into the language of the guest and routed to the mobile communications device associated with the hotel guest.

In some implementations the systems and methods described herein for multi language messaging can be used as a walk up translation station that can be placed for example at the front desk of a hotel or any other suitable location. The translation station can include a first mobile communications device for use by a hotel guest and a second mobile communication device for use by a hotel representative. The first mobile communications device can be placed in close proximity to the second mobile communications device. A hotel guest can walk up to the first mobile communications device and type in a message kiosk in their native language. The message can be translated into a language that is readable by the hotel representative and then presented on the display of the second mobile communications device. Additional details regarding an example embodiments are described below with regard to .

It is noted that reference throughout the specification to various embodiments some embodiments one embodiment some example embodiments one example embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in various embodiments in some embodiments in one embodiment some example embodiments one example embodiment or in an embodiment in places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Referring now to one example embodiment of the present disclosure can comprise a computer based content management system . The content management system can be provided using any suitable processor based device or system such as a personal computer laptop server mainframe or a collection e.g. network of multiple computers for example. The content management system can include one or more processors and one or more computer memory units . For convenience only one processor and only one memory unit are shown in . The processor can execute software instructions stored on the memory unit . The processor can be implemented as an integrated circuit IC having one or multiple cores. The memory unit can include volatile and or non volatile memory units. Volatile memory units can include random access memory RAM for example. Non volatile memory units can include read only memory ROM for example as well as mechanical non volatile memory systems such as for example a hard disk drive an optical disk drive etc. The RAM and or ROM memory units can be implemented as discrete memory ICs for example.

The memory unit can store executable software and data for a content management engine . When the processor of the content management system executes the software of the content management engine the processor can be caused to perform the various operations of the content management system such as receive content associate a trigger with content and provide the content to user communications devices upon receipt of the trigger receive updates to the content provide reporting analytics and coordinate multi language messaging as discussed in more detail below.

Data used by the group content management engine can be from various sources such as a content database behavioral database mobile communications database which can be electronic computer databases for example. The data stored in the databases can be stored in a non volatile computer memory such as a hard disk drive a read only memory e.g. a ROM IC or other types of non volatile memory. In some embodiments one or more databases can be stored on a remote electronic computer system for example. As it to be appreciated a variety of other databases or other types of memory storage structures can be utilized or otherwise associated with the content management system .

The content management system can be in communication with mobile communications devices referred to generally as via an electronic communications network. The communications network can include a number of computer and or data networks including the Internet LANs WANs GPRS networks etc. and can comprise wired and or wireless communication links. In addition to the mobile communications devices the content management system can be in networked communication with other devices such as a computing device associated with a content curator . Through the computer device a content curator can provide content to the content management system and in some embodiments receive analytics . As described in more detail below the content curator can interact with the content management system through a web or application based user interface presented to the content curator through the computing device .

The content supplied by the content curator can include any suitable type of language based content. Language based content broadly includes any variety of content that includes a written or spoken language component such as audio based content video based content image based content and text based content for example.

By way of example audio based content can include a song with lyrics spoken or sang in a first language. The lyrics can be translated into different languages and sent to mobile communications devices in accordance with the presently described systems and methods.

The video based content can include an audio component that includes words spoken or sang in a particular language which can be translated into different languages. In some cases the video based content can additionally or alternatively include a text component such as in the form of subtitles or other words graphically presented within the video. This text component of the video based content can be translated into different languages.

The image based content can include still images or graphics that include a text component. This text component of the video based content can be translated into different languages.

The text based content which can be provided by the content curator can broadly include words or letters written in a first language that can be translated into different languages. For ease and simplicity of description many of the embodiments described herein are described in terms of processing text based content. The present disclosure is not so limited as any type of language based content can be supplied to and managed by the content management system .

Referring still to a user can be associated with the mobile communications device which can be any type computer device suitable for communication over the network such as a wearable computing device A a mobile telephone B a tablet computer C a device that is a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone D sometimes referred to as a smart phone a personal computer E such as a laptop computer netbook computer desktop computer and so forth or any other suitable mobile communications device F such as personal digital assistants PDA mobile gaming devices or media players for example. Examples of wearable computing device A sometimes referred to as a wearable includes devices that incorporate an augmented reality head mounted display as well as other computing devices that can be worn on or within the body of the user .

In some example embodiments the mobile communications device can be arranged to perform data communications functionality in accordance with shorter range wireless networks such as a wireless personal area network PAN offering Bluetooth data communications services in accordance with the Bluetooth . Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols specifications profiles and so forth. Other examples of shorter range wireless networks can employ infrared IR techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques including passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices. The user device can comprise one or more internal and or external antennas to support operation in multiple frequency bands or sub bands such as the 2.4 GHz range of the ISM frequency band for Wi Fi and Bluetooth communications one or more of the 850 MHz 900 MHZ 1800 MHz and 1900 MHz frequency bands for GSM CDMA TDMA NAMPS cellular and or PCS communications the 2100 MHz frequency band for CDMA2000 EV DO and or WCDMA JMTS communications the 1575 MHz frequency band for Global Positioning System GPS operations and others.

The mobile communications device can in some embodiments provide a variety of applications for allowing the user to accomplish one or more specific tasks using the content management system . Applications can include without limitation a web browser application e.g. INTERNET EXPLORER MOZILLA FIREFOX SAFARI OPERA NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR telephone application e.g. cellular VoIP PTT networking application messaging application e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS BLACKBERRY Messenger and so forth. The mobile communications device can comprise various software programs such as system programs and applications to provide computing capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. System programs can include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary operating systems can include for example a PALM OS MICROSOFT OS APPLE OS ANDORID OS UNIX OS LINUX OS SYMBIAN OS EMBEDIX OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and others.

The mobile communications device can include various components for interacting with the content management system such as a display for presenting the virtual content a camera for scanning various types of triggers and a keypad for inputting data and or commands. The mobile communications device can include other components for use with one or more applications such as a stylus a touch sensitive screen keys e.g. input keys preset and programmable hot keys buttons e.g. action buttons a multidirectional navigation button preset and programmable shortcut buttons switches a microphone speakers an audio headset and so forth.

User can interact with the content management system via a variety of other electronic communications techniques such as without limitation HTTP requests and short message service SMS messages. The electronic communications can be generated by a specialized application executed on the mobile communications device or can be generated using one or more applications that are generally standard to the mobile communications device . The applications can include or be implemented as executable computer program instructions stored on computer readable storage media such as volatile or non volatile memory capable of being retrieved and executed by a processor to provide operations for the mobile communications device . The memory can also store various databases and or other types of data structures e.g. arrays files tables records for storing data for use by the processor and or other elements of mobile communications device .

As shown in the content management system can include several computer servers and databases. For example the content management system can include one or more web servers application servers and or any other type of servers . For convenience only one web server and one application server are shown in although it should be recognized that the disclosure is not so limited. The servers can cause content to be sent to the to the mobile communication device in any number of formats such as text based messages multimedia message email messages smart phone notifications web pages and so forth. The servers can comprise processors e.g. CPUs memory units e.g. RAM ROM non volatile storage systems e.g. hard disk drive systems etc. The servers can utilize operating systems such as Solaris Linux or Windows Server operating systems for example.

The web server can provide a graphical web user interface through which various users of the system can interact with the content management system . The web server can accept requests such as HTTP requests from clients such as web browsers on the mobile communications device or the computing device and serve the clients responses such as HTTP responses along with optional data content such as web pages e.g. HTML documents and linked objects such as images video and so forth .

The application server can provide a user interface for users who do not communicate with the content management system using a web browser. Such users can have special software installed on their mobile communications device that allows them to communicate with the application server via the network. In some embodiments the special software is configured to display a selected language specific virtual keyboard that contains the specialized characters for a selected language. Such software can be downloaded for example from the content management system or other software application provider over the network to such mobile communications devices .

The user interface provided by the web server or the application server as the case may be can permit users via mobile communications device to communicate with each other in real time techniques described herein see below . For embodiments that provide multi language messaging the content management system can include an instant messaging server not shown or other components for handling the instant messaging communications between the users.

In some embodiments the content management system can communicate with a translation module that generally performs machine based translation of the content supplied by the content curator . In the illustrated embodiment an application programming interface API is utilized to communication with the translation module although the disclosure is not so limited. In some embodiments for example the translation module is local to the content management system . In other embodiments translation services are provided by human translators that are either local or remote to the content management system . For example a content curator can optionally select the type of translation human or machine to be used for particular content . The content curator may indicate through interactions with the system that for a particular piece of content certain languages translations are to be obtained through machine based translations while other language translations are to be obtained through human based translations. With regard to the human based translations the content management system upon selection of the human based translation option by the content curator can automatically send an electronic indication to a human based translation service not shown requesting a translation. A human translator at the human based translation service can interact with the content management system such an through a graphical user interface to translate the content into one or more languages.

In any event translated content can be stored in the content database for subsequent transmission to a mobile communications device . The translation module can also be utilized during the multi language messaging functionality supplied by the content management system to provide substantially real time language translation of messages between users.

As indicated by wireless communication the mobile communications device can provide various forms of information to the content management system . The wireless communication can be transmitted to the content management system in any suitable format such as a text message based communication an application communication a web based communication or any other type of suitable network communication. In some embodiments the wireless communication comprises a trigger along with various types of metadata . The metadata can include for example an identifier such as a country code or mobile telephone number. The metadata can also include device information and or a variety of other information that can be used by the content management system . Additional details regarding example types of metadata is discussed below with reference to .

Upon receipt of the trigger and associated metadata the content management system can query the content database and retrieve content from the content database that is affiliated with the trigger . The content affiliated with the trigger shown as content in can then be transmitted to the mobile communications device . As described in more detail below the content provided to the mobile communications device can be content that has been translated by the translation module so that the user can readily comprehend the content. The content can be provided to the mobile communications device in a variety of formats. For example a website address can be transmitted to the mobile communications device that is accessible by the mobile communications device to access the content associated with the content management system . In other embodiments the content can be a text based message or any other suitable format.

Although depicts a limited number of elements for purposes of illustration it can be appreciated that the content management system can include more or less elements as well as other types of elements in accordance with the described embodiments. Elements of the content management system can include physical or logical entities for communicating information implemented as hardware components e.g. computing devices processors logic devices executable computer program instructions e.g. firmware software to be executed by various hardware components or combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints.

The dynamic content supplied by the content curator at a first point in time shown as Time and can include a variety of content formats such as text based content video based content image based content and so forth. Upon providing the dynamic content the content management system can identify the text based content and translate it into translated content using the translation module . As shown the translated content can include a plurality of different translations shown as A B C with each translation being in a different language or dialect. The text based content and the translated content can be stored in the content database .

At a later point in time shown as Time the dynamic content associated with the trigger can be updated by the content curator . The updated text based content can then be translated to generate updated translated content . As illustrated the updated translated content can include the plurality of different translations shown as A B C. It is noted that the trigger originally linked to the dynamic content does not need to be altered when the linked dynamic content is updated.

When determining which dynamic content to deliver in response to a trigger the content management system can rely on additional information received from the mobile communications device. For example metadata received along with the trigger from a mobile communications device can be processed to determine which dynamic content should be delivered to the mobile communications device. The metadata can include without limitation geographic data demographic data user equipment data and so forth.

The object associated with a trigger does not necessarily have to include text content. Referring now to object B is a physical object that includes image content . Object B can be for example a piece of art in a museum. A trigger is coupled to or otherwise associated with the object B. As illustrated the trigger is linked to object B content which has been provided by the content curator . The object B content can be related to the image content . Translated object B content can also be associated with the trigger . In the example of a piece of art the object B content can include an artist biography a history of the piece or any other related information. The translated object B content can include the descriptions of the piece of art translated into a number of different languages. A person viewing the piece of art at the museum can transmit the trigger to the content management system and receive translated object B content . As described in more detail below in some embodiments the trigger can be based on mobile visual search MVS technology. For instance a user can take a picture of the piece of art and the picture can serve as the trigger for the content management system.

The object associated with a trigger does not necessarily have to include image or text content nor does the object have to be a physical object. Referring now to object C is a non physical object such as a geographical based location. A trigger such as a latitude and longitude or general geographic region is associated with the object C. As illustrated the trigger is linked to object C content that is provided by the content curator . The object C content can be related to the non physical object. Translated object C content can also be associated with the trigger . In the example of a geographical based location the object C content can include information related to that particular geographical location. The translated object C content can include the descriptions of that particular location translated into a number of different languages. A person standing at a certain location such as proximate to a landmark can transmit the trigger i.e their location to the content management system and receive translated object C content related to that landmark. In some embodiments the users can supply user supplied location based content to the content management system . Such user supplied location based content can subsequently be provided to users by the content management system who transmits the associated trigger.

Referring now to object D is a non physical object that includes audio content . Object D can be for example a song the audio portion of a commercial movie or television show a radio advertisement or any other audio based medium. A trigger is associated with the object D. The trigger can be an acoustic code such as an acoustic fingerprint technology AFT code. As illustrated the trigger is linked to object D content which has been provided by the content curator . The object D content can be related to the audio content . Translated object D content can also be associated with the trigger . In the example of a song the object D content can include song related information such as artist information or purchasing information. The translated object D content can include the song related information translated into a number of different languages. A user listening to the audio content can transmit the trigger to the content management system and receive the translated object D content that is associated with the song.

In the example of menu the content can include descriptions of dishes ingredients pictures of the dish and so forth. In some embodiments the content curator can also supply additional information generally referred to as object information which relates to the object but is not necessarily intended to be transmitted to a user. Upon providing the content to the content management system a trigger descriptor is provided to the content curator . In the illustrated example the trigger descriptor is a graphic file of the two dimensional code . The content supplied by the content curator and associated translations of the content can be stored in a content database associated with the content management system . In accordance with various embodiments the content management system can track or otherwise monitor the interactions between various triggers and various mobile communications device. Data related to these interactions can be provided to the content curator or other interested parties through reporting .

The content curator can subsequently associate the two dimensional code with the menu . The association can be made using any suitable technique such as printing the two dimensional code directly onto the menu placing a sticker with the two dimensional code on the menu or otherwise including the two dimensional code on a menu insert or advertisement for example. A person having difficulty reading the menu can obtain the two dimensional code using a scanner such as a camera on their mobile communications device . As illustrated this two dimensional code is sent to the content management system as a trigger . Upon receipt of the trigger translated content is provided to the mobile communications device . In the example of the menu the translated content can include written descriptions of dishes and ingredients translated into the user s preferred language.

Advertisement is yet another embodiment of a static object that is associated with a trigger which is illustrated as a one dimensional barcode . Content relevant to the advertisement is stored within the content database . When the mobile communications device provides the trigger to the content management system translated content associated with the advertisement can be provided to the mobile communications device . As is to be appreciated the advertisement can be fixed content such as a printed poster advertising a playhouse. The virtual content associated with the printed poster can be routinely updated to reflect upcoming show times performances and so forth. Thus the dynamic content sent to mobile communication device based on a transmission of the one dimensional code can include up to date information. In some embodiments the advertisement may be for a retail establishment or restaurant and a user of the mobile device can transmit the one dimensional trigger to receive deals offerings or coupons from the retail establishment or restaurant. The particulars of the deals offerings or coupons can be updated by the content curator over time.

It is noted that in some embodiments two physical objects such as two advertisements may be associated with an identical trigger such as an identical barcode for example . Nevertheless the content management system can still be configured to dispatch different content to different mobile communications device that transmit the trigger . For example metadata accompanying the trigger can indicate the physical location i.e. GPS coordinates of the mobile communications device . Using this physical location the content management system which virtual content to dispatch to the requesting device as established by the content curator . Thus a user scanning a trigger while standing outside a movie theater in Los Angeles can receive different content than a user scanning the same trigger while standing outside a movie theater in New York. The physical location of the user transmitting the trigger can also be relevant in other implementations. When the translated content delivered to the mobile communications device includes walking or driving directions that are based on the actual location of the mobile communications device the physical location of the mobile communications device can be used to determine which directions to transmit for the user to follow.

Still referring to geographical location depicts an example of associating a geographical based trigger such as a longitude latitude code to a particular location or region. When the longitude latitude code is sent to the content management system as a trigger the content management system can cross references the longitude latitude code to content supplied by the content curator that is associated with that particular location or a geographic region sometimes referred to as geo fencing . If the longitude latitude code indicates the user is physically located within a predefined area translated content linked to that predefined area can be sent to the mobile communication device .

Some embodiments can utilize wireless non contact system that use radio frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data from a tag attached to an object such as signage or any other suitable object. Upon receiving information from an RFID tag such as by polling the RFID tag with an electromagnetic field the mobile communications device can pass the information along to the content management system as a trigger . Similar to the previous embodiments the contentment management system can determine what content in the content database is associated with that particular trigger and supply translated content to the mobile communications device . As is to be appreciated any contactless transaction can be used to transmit data associated with the object to the mobile communications device. Suitable wireless non contact communications systems can be utilized such as near filed communication NFC technology Bluetooth technology or other suitable transmission technologies. Additional details regarding non contacting communication technologies are discussed in more detail below.

It is noted that various codes presented in such as two dimensional code and one dimensional barcode do not necessarily have to be embodied in a printed medium. The code can be displayed using any suitable presentment medium such as displayed on any type of video screen or projected on a surface for example.

At a language list is sent to the mobile communications device by the content management system . The language list can identify all of the different languages in which content can be delivered to the mobile communications device . Alternatively the language list can merely identify a subset of all of the different languages in which content can be delivered. The particular languages in the subset can be determined for example based on an identifier that was received from the mobile communications device. The identifier can be included in the metadata and can be for example a country code or other type of geographic identifier a telephone number or an IP address. The language list can be presented to the user of the mobile communications device in any suitable format such as within a text message with a browser window and so forth. In any event the user can select one of the languages and provide the selection to the content management system . Examples of language list presentment and selection are shown below in .

At the translated content A is transmitted to the mobile communications device by the content management system . The translated content A is the content associated with Trigger A that has been translated into the language that was indicated by the selection .

As with many of the embodiments described herein the user can be presented with the option to share the translation content A to social networking websites that are associated with the user . Example social networking websites can include without limitation Facebook Twitter LinkedIn MySpace Pinterest and Google . The particular content shared to the social networking website can be displayed on that website in the translated language as associates of the user on the social networking website are likely speak the same language as the user . Nevertheless the content shared to the social networking website can also include a hyperlink to the content management system through which the associates can seek additional translations of the content.

The sharing can be functionally implemented using any suitable technique known in the art such as by including a share this icon on a webpage that is sent to the mobile communications device by the content management system . Upon activation of the share this icon the user can select which particular social networking website s to which the translation should be shared. As with other interactions with the content management system the user s activity with regard to pushing content to social networking websites can be stored by the system for analytics purposes.

At the user encounters trigger B. Using the mobile communications device the user supplies trigger B and metadata to the content management system via the network . Based on the metadata the content management system is able to identify the mobile communications device and determine that the user has supplied a preferred language via the previous language selection .

At the translated content B is transmitted to the mobile communications device by the content management system . The translated content B is the content associated with Trigger B and is translated into the language that was indicated by the selection .

In accordance with various embodiments the system and methods described herein can be used for multi language real time messaging between users who do not necessarily speak the same language. depicts an example multi language messaging session between two users that is coordinated by a content management system . In the illustrated embodiment a first user prefers language A while the second user prefers language B and a trigger is associated with the second user . The trigger can be physically associated with the second user using any suitable technique such as via a barcode printed on a name tag or an RFID tag coupled to a business card for example. Alternatively the trigger may not necessarily be physically associated with the second user . Instead the trigger can provided to the first user via a sign in a hotel room a brochure or any other suitable form of communication. In any event once the first user determines they wish to communicate with the second user the first user can transmit the trigger to the content management system using their mobile communications device . The first user can also transmit a message in language A . Message can be typed for example using an onscreen keyboard that includes the characters necessary to communicate in language A.

The content management system receives the trigger and determines that the trigger is associated with the second user . Based on a language preference of the second user which is language B in the illustrated embodiment the message can be translated into language B in substantially real time. In one embodiment a translation module is utilized for the translation functionality. The content management system then transmits the message that has been translated into language B to the mobile communications device of the second user .

Upon receiving the message from the first user the second user may wish to respond. Using an onscreen keyboard which can include the characters necessary to communicate in language B the second user can type a message in language B and send it to the content management system. Upon translation of the message from language B to language A the content management system can transmit the message in language A to the mobile communications device of the first user . Since the communications channels have been established between the first user and the second user the two users can communicate in substantially real time. As shown message is provided by the first user in language A and the content management system translates the message into language B prior to transmitting the message to the mobile communications device of the second user . It is not necessary to re transmit the trigger in order to maintain the communication channel between the first user and the second user .

Referring to in some embodiments the mobile communications device and the mobile communications device can be positioned in close proximity in an arrangement that can be used as a walk up translation station . In one embodiment the translation station comprises a frame that supports the two mobile communications device in a generally opposed position. As is to be readily appreciated however some embodiments will not utilize a frame or will otherwise maintain the two mobile communications device in different relative positions. In one embodiment the mobile communications devices are tablet computers although any suitable type of mobile communications device can be used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In the illustrated embodiment the translation station is positioned on a desktop . The translation station can be used in a variety of operational environments such as at hotel front desks customer service centers airports train stations and so forth. As illustrated the first user can walk up to an engage with the mobile communications device and select a preferred language. The onscreen keyboard can display a character set for the selected language illustrated as language A in . The first user can type a message in language A via the virtual keyboard . The message can be sent to the content management engine through the network . The content management system can receive and process the message. The message can be translated in substantially real time into language B. The translated message can then be sent to and displayed on the mobile communications device . The second user such as a hotel employee for example can reply to the message by typing a message using the mobile communications device . The message can be typed using an onscreen keyboard that displays a character set for the language associated with the second user illustrated as language B .

In one embodiment QR Code contains a representation of content e.g. any text contained in the content and or image description. Additionally QR code may contain location information and other data relating to content . For example if sign is displayed at an event the event information may be encoded as well. In one embodiment a language code is included to designate the language in which the content is presented. Further details may be found below in connection with .

When the QR Code is scanned by the mobile communications device the content may be displayed as text or may open a Uniform Resource Identifier URI or compose an e mail or text message. QR codes may also contain addresses and Uniform Resource Locators URLs to hardlink also referred to as object hyperlinking and connect mobile communications device to a network . In one embodiment scanning of QR Code generates a Hyper Text Markup Language HTML page on device . As is known in the art HTML is a markup language that is a set of markup tags that is used by HTML to describe web pages. The HTML form is opened in a web browser. When opened data relating to content is presented on mobile communications device . In this example the data may be related to text or other content that is in a language that is not understood by user of device . In this case the browser provides a language selection list that allows the user to select a language that is more familiar to the user. When the new language is selected the page is transmitted through network to server which automatically translates the content or retrieves translated content from a database and transmits the translation preferably as an HTML page back to device .

Under an alternate embodiment mobile communications device browser can execute a URI redirection allowing the QR code to send metadata to existing applications on the mobile communications device . In cases where smaller groups of users are contemplated a predetermined number of recognized languages can be pushed to mobile communications device together with a data set containing the known content of signs in a given area. In this instance translation of content can be performed on the mobile communications device without using significant network resources.

Under another embodiment server can be communicatively coupled to one or more other servers that provide additional content relating to information obtained from QR Code . For example server can provide information to mobile communications device regarding other users detected in the area that speak the native language of the original user as well as the language that was requested for translation. In another example server can provide HTML pages containing the translated content of neighboring signs in a given area. When the QR Codes or other types of triggers from the neighboring signs are scanned the translated content is immediately presented to the user. It is understood that the functionalities of servers and may be combined in a single server as well.

Turning to information sometimes referred to at metadata pertaining to device can be collected and transmitted along with a trigger. The device information can be transmitted with each trigger or can alternately be sent at predetermined times or upon the detection of a specific event e.g. device detected in a specific location or connected to a wireless network . Here any of data sets pertaining to user the device time and environment can be transmitted at given times or can be provided after a user has registered with a web site or other network based provider. For example the user s name can be collected after an initial registration. Language preferences can be entered providing information on native language s language proficiencies and or frequently encountered languages for translation. By entering frequently encountered languages for translation the content management system can advantageously translate content automatically without requiring additional input from the user. As illustrated a wide variety of other types of metadata can also be transmitted along with the trigger as indicated by additional metadata in .

For device information the type of device hardware and software can be included as well. This information can assist the content management system to provide data back to device in a format that is compatible. Time data includes a time stamp or code that indicates the date hour and minute when the device is requesting a translation request or for other purposes. Environment data includes data pertaining to device s location which can be determined from GPS or from a connection to a specific network . Physical data relates to the physical surrounding of device which can include temperature ambient noise or accelerometer measurements which would indicate whether the user is stationary or moving. People data relates to other users such as personal and or business contacts in the event device is equipped with social media software similar lists e.g. friends could be included. Resources data relates to data and or voice networks being accessed or are accessible to device . Resource data can be useful in determining when and how communication can be made with device .

Turning to an exemplary configuration for trigger is illustrated. The trigger can be the QR Code discussed above in connection with or any other suitable code. The data structure of trigger can take any of a number of forms. In the example of trigger comprises data relating to the subject of content command codes that are capable of causing device to execute specific functions and security . As illustrated a wide variety of other types of data can be included in the data structure of the trigger as indicated by the additional data in .

Subject data can comprise data relating to a type of content such as an advertisement road sign meeting placard or the like. Owner information can indicate one or more underlying subjects affiliated with content. For example a display for XYZ Services provided by ABC Corporation at The 123 Convention can contain any or all of this information in the 2D code. This information can be subsequently used for tailoring translations and or providing additional content as described above. Language data indicates the language in which the content was presented. Under an alternate embodiment language data can also include one or more languages that are statistically linked for translation from the native language. For example if content is presented in English a link to the Spanish and French languages can be placed within the code. Such a configuration would be advantageous for an automatic default translation template for use in North America. Location data includes information relating to the physical location where the content is displayed or presented.

Command data includes information allowing device to execute specific functions. The command data can be incorporated into code but can also be transmitted separately via commands entered by a user. In one embodiment commands comprise an alphanumerical code that is read out and compared to a look up table for determining a specific function to be executed on the device. Translate data signifies the code as containing information suitable for translation. Execute data signifies a command that involves running one or more application on the device. Store code provides the option of storing a decoded code or a representation of the code e.g. an image of the actual code . This function advantageously allows a device to postpone transmission in the event that no network connections are available. Security relates to any security and or encryption that can be desired for code .

In step the device scans a trigger which is a two dimensional code in this embodiment. At it is determined if code translation software is in an active or passive mode. When the code translation software is in active mode the device requires a user input to facilitate the decoding and translation of the two dimensional Code . When the two dimensional Code information is obtained from the decoding process the information can be transmitted to a remote server for translation. During an active translation process the user can additionally provide user input such as a selection from a menu or drop down screen to provide further instruction for translation. As an example a user can scan a two dimensional code associated with a sign printed in English. After pressing a translate icon on the screen the user then selects French from a menu that will serve as instruction for the content in the two dimensional code to be translated into the French language. After the content is transmitted out in the server can performs machine translation on the text and transmits it back where it is received in the device.

When the code translation software is in passive mode the device requires little to no input from the user and the process is performed automatically. After a two dimensional code is scanned the device automatically decodes the code and extracts the content. Next the software detects commands that may be present and or interpreted from the decoded information and automatically sends the data in . After a remote server receives the data it performs machine based translation and transmits the translated content back to the device . In the embodiment of additional content discussed above may also be received.

Generally SMS is a text messaging service component of phone web or mobile communication systems using standardized communications protocols that allow the exchange of short text messages between fixed line or mobile phone devices. SMS text messaging is the most widely used data application in the world with 2.4 billion active users or 74 of all mobile phone subscribers. SMS was originally defined in GSM recommendation 03.40 which is now maintained in 3GPP as TS 23.040. Currently GSM 03.41 now 3GPP TS 23.041 defines SMS Cell Broadcast SMS CB which allows messages advertising public information etc. to be broadcast to all mobile users in a specified geographical area. Typically messages are sent to a short message service center SMSC which provides a store and forward mechanism where it attempts to send messages to the SMSC s recipients. If a recipient is not reachable the SMSC queues the message for later retry. Both mobile terminated MT for messages sent to a mobile handset and mobile originating MO for those sent from the mobile handset operations are supported.

Transmission of short messages between the SMSC and the handset is done whenever using the Mobile Application Part MAP of the SS7 protocol. Messages are sent with the MAP MO and MT Forward SM operations whose payload length is limited by the constraints of the signaling protocol to 140 octets. Short messages can be encoded using a variety of alphabets the default GSM 7 bit alphabet the 8 bit data alphabet and the 16 bit UTF 16 alphabet. Depending on which alphabet the subscriber has configured in the handset this leads to the maximum individual short message sizes of 160 7 bit characters 140 8 bit characters or 70 16 bit characters. MMS is a standard way to send messages that include multimedia content to and from mobile phones. It extends the core SMS capability that allowed exchange of text messages only up to 160 characters in length.

Additionally there is a wide variety of one dimensional and two dimensional which can be used as triggers which are described in more detail below that are specifically designed to allow camera based recognition. A well known one dimensional code is the Universal Product Code UPC barcode. Other one dimensional codes include without limitation international standard book number ISBN codes and international article number EAN codes. Well known 2D codes are DataMatrix described in greater detail in ISO IEC 16022 2000 and QR Codes described in greater detail in ISO IEC 18004 2000 2006 . Barcodes represented data by varying the widths and spacings of parallel lines and may be referred to as linear or one dimensional. The very first code was the Universal Product Code UPC however there are other codes such as ISBN EAN and SCC 14 that represent different types of packaging as well as where they are used in the world.

QR Codes Quick Response Codes are one example of a two dimensional barcodes rendered in the form of a symbol comprising a matrix code that is easily captured and interpreted by scanner equipment. It contains information in both vertical and horizontal directions whereas a classical barcode has only one direction of data usually the horizontal one . For the purposes of illustration only compared to a one dimensional barcode a QR Code can hold a considerably greater volume of information 7 089 characters for numeric only 4 296 characters for alphanumeric data 2 953 bytes of binary 8 bits and 1 817 characters of Japanese Kanji Kana symbols. Further developments in QR code are allowing for even greater capacities of data.

Aside from being able to encode large amounts of information QR codes are further capable of utilizing diverse types of data such as text Uniform Resource Locators URLs location and other data. QR Code may also be configured to have error correction capability. Data can be restored even when substantial parts of the code are distorted or damaged. In the QR Code standard corners are marked and estimated so that the inside code can be scanned.

During typical operation the barcode recognition process has 5 steps 1 edge detection 2 shape detection 3 identification of barcode control bar 4 identification of the barcode orientation dimensions and bit density using the control bar and 5 calculating the value of the barcode.

The scanning of a QR Codes can be performed on mobile communications devices equipped with QR Code reading software e.g. i nigma UpCode RedLaser Mobiletag NeoReader QuickMark ScanLife BeeTagg Kaywa Zxing etc. . Users photograph QR Codes and the software integrated into the mobile communications devices decodes the messages and displays manipulates or stores the information on the mobile device. Depending on the type of data recognized and the nature of the application alternative actions can follow the decoding stage a phone number can be automatically dialed a short text message can be sent a web page corresponding to the decoded URL can be displayed in a mobile browser or a definite application can be executed.

Referring now to at the SMS code shown as 000322 is shown inputted into a mobile communications device . The SMS code can be inputted as the body of a text message using the text messaging service component of the mobile communications device . Other embodiments however can utilize a specialized software application executable on the mobile communications device to retrieve and send the trigger to the content management system. In any event the SMS code is transmitted to a destination address as indicated on the tag shown as 411111 . The destination address which can be a SMS short code is associated with a content management system. Once the SMS code has been transmitted to the content management system as a SMS text message a language list is sent to the mobile communications device and displayed on the display screen so that a user can select a specific language in which the user wishes to receive the content that is linked to the tag . As described above the particular languages presented in the language list can be based for example on metadata received along with the SMS code such as a country code. At a selection is made by transmitting a selection from the language selection list to the content management system. This transmission can be executed as a reply to the incoming text message received from the content management system. At a translation shown here in Spanish associated with the SMS code and the selection is sent to the mobile communications device and displayed on the display screen as a text message. Subsequent SMS codes dispatched from the mobile communications device which can be retrieved from other tags for example can automatically cause translations to be delivered to the mobile communications device in the selected language without requiring a need for further language prompts.

At the two dimensional code is shown inputted into a mobile communications device . In one embodiment the two dimensional code is inputted into the mobile communications device using an QR Code reading software as described above. The content embedded in the two dimensional code can cause the mobile communications device to send a web based request to a content management system. A web page can be returned to the mobile communications device that includes a language list . In the illustrated embodiment the language list includes all available languages for translations. The language selection list graphical scrolls to allow a user to select a desired language. It is to be appreciated however that any suitable technique can be used to display the language selection list and to retrieve a selection such as a drop down menu a list with radio buttons and so forth. At a web page is displayed on the display screen of the mobile communications device . The content displayed on the web page is associated with the two dimensional code and the selection . Subsequent two dimensional codes dispatched from the mobile communications device which can be retrieved from other tags for example can automatically cause translations to be delivered to the mobile communications device in the selected language without requiring a need for further language prompts as the language selection can be stored as a cookie in the web browser of the mobile communications device.

An example user interface through which a content curator can input virtual content and subsequently review and edit translations of the content is shown in to . Referring first to a content curator can supply information related to a particular object. This information can subsequently be displayed in the user interface as shown in . shows another example user interface that can be displayed to a content curator. The user interface displays the triggers associated with the text based content shown here as a numeric code and a two dimensional code . This user interface also displays the particular content that will be delivered to a mobile communications device upon receipt of the trigger. In some embodiments the content curator can update this content on as as needed basis. The content associated with the numeric code is text message based content and the content associated with the two dimensional code is web based content . The text message based content and the web based content can be different as shown in or the content can be the same as shown in and .

The user interface can also include translation preview windows to allow the content curator to view the various translations of the text message based content and the web based content . As shown in the translation preview window is shown displaying the content that will be displayed on a mobile communications device that has sent the numeric code as a trigger and that has requested a French translation. Similarly the translation preview window is shown displaying the content that will be displayed on a mobile communications device that has sent the two dimensional code as a trigger and has requested a French translation. Through manipulation of the language selection menus the content curator can selectively view the translation of the content in a variety of different languages. In other words if the content curator were to select Deutsch from the language selection menu the German translation of the web based content would be displayed for review. If necessary the content curator could edit the translation and then store the edited translation so that the edited translation would be sent to a mobile communications device that has sent the two dimensional code as a trigger and has requested a German translation.

Another example user interface through which a content curator can input virtual content and subsequently review and edit translations of the content is shown extending from to . Referring first to a content curator can supply information related to a particular object. Additional sign related information e.g. sign type photo and sign location can also be provided. Once the text based content is entered it can be translated for further evaluation. The translated results can be presented using a global view as shown in where translations from multiple languages are displayed on one screen. In some embodiments a translation module can be utilized to generate the translations that are presented in . As described above once the machine based translations are determined each translation can be individually edited to satisfaction of the content curator.

Turning to yet another embodiment is disclosed. References of correspond to the same references in the functionalities of each will not be repeated here for the purpose of brevity. In this example embodiment the mobile communications device is within visual distance of a sign a restaurant menu and a promotional flyer each respectively containing content and triggers . In this embodiment triggers are in the form of alphanumeric symbols e.g. 05102 that are affixed to a surface of a sign using an adhesive sticker or other suitable means. The triggers are chosen to be associated with the content for each respective sign where each trigger represents a translation function to be performed on the content.

Continuing with the example a user may be in front of sign where content is displayed. When the user enters trigger 05102 into the mobile communications device the trigger is transmitted to server which can be part of the content management system . The entering of trigger may be done via SMS texting or through a dialog box or the like that is part of a software application residing on mobile communications device . Once the code is received at server an initial language confirmation message can be transmitted to mobile communications device such as Thank you for requesting translation. Please choose one of the following languages 1 English 2 German 3 French 4 Spanish etc. After making entering the language selection from the language selection list the entry is transmitted back to server . This entry can subsequently be used for providing further translations without needing to interact with the user each time a new translation is requested.

Using automated machine translation either in real time time or based on stored translations the server transmits the text into the selected language to mobile communications device that is associated with the trigger . The translated text may be in the form of a SMS message or other suitable communication. Similarly if a user is presented with menu the trigger 07829 can be entered into mobile communications device resulting in a translation of content similar to the processes described above in connection with sign . Likewise if a user picks up flyer trigger 04730 is entered to receive the translation of content .

In addition to the embodiments described herein it is also possible to utilize translation codes in the context of wireless communication systems such as global positioning system GPS radio frequency identification RFID and near field communication NFC . As is known in the art GPS is a space based satellite navigation system that provides location and time information anywhere on or near the Earth where there is an unobstructed line of sight to four or more GPS satellites. It is to be understood that the embodiments disclosed herein are also compatible with other location based systems such as the European Union Galileo positioning system the Russian Global Navigation Satellite System GLONASS Chinese Compass navigation system and Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System. In addition other positioning technologies can be used as well including time of flight systems that utilize trilateration from the time of propagation of pulsed signals between a transmitter and receiver ultrasonic trackers spatial scan inertial sensing direct field sensing and phase difference.

With respect to GPS device can communicate with one or more satellites in order to provide and or receive location based data. In one embodiment mobile communications device automatically appends location data to triggers before sending the trigger to network . In another embodiment one or more triggers are themselves enabled with GPS capabilities and are capable of communicating with satellite s and transmitting the location data to device together or separately from the code. In yet another embodiment each tag can carry a predetermined location code that is automatically transmitted wirelessly to mobile communications device as will be explained in further detail below. In yet another embodiment the code itself e.g. 05102 can contain a location component that automatically identifies the location of specific content. In this embodiment entry of codes does not require the opening of a specific application on the phone and can transfer location data using native applications e.g. SMS MMS without the need for GPS based services.

With regard to wireless transmission one advantageous arrangement includes the use of RFID technology. RFID systems are comprised of two primary components a transponder which is typically affixed to the object being identified e.g. sign menu nametag business card packaging etc. and an interrogator or reader which can be a read or write read device. The transponder generally comprises a coupling element and a microchip. The transponder does not require a power source such as a battery when the transponder is not within the interrogation zone of a reader it is passive. The transponder is only activated when it is within the interrogation zone of a reader and the power required to activate the transponder is supplied via the wireless coupling unit as well as the timing pulse and data.

NFC is related to RFID and generally serves as a wireless data interface between devices. Data transmission between two NFC interfaces uses high frequency magnetic alternating fields in the frequency range of 13.56 MHz allowing communication of NFC data for up to 20 cm. A NFC interface typically has a 13.56 MHz transmitter and a 13.56 MHz receiver that are alternately connected to an antenna. The antenna may be designed as a large surface coil or conductor loop. For communication between two NFC interfaces the individual NFC interface can take on different functions that of an NFC initiator master device or an NFC target slave device . Communication is typically started by the NFC initiator. In addition NFC is capable of operating in different operational modes namely the active and the passive mode.

During operation one of the NFC interfaces activates its transmitter and thus works as the NFC initiator. The high frequency current that flows in the antenna induces an alternating magnetic field which spreads around the antenna loop. Part of the induced magnetic field moves through the antenna loop of the other NFC interface which is in close proximity. A voltage is then induced in the antenna loop and can be detected by the receiver of the other NFC interface. If the NFC interface receives signals and the corresponding commands of an NFC initiator this NFC interface automatically adopts the roll of an NFC target. For data transmission between the NFC interfaces the amplitude of the emitted magnetic alternating field is modulated ASK modulation similar to the data transmission between RFID reader.

In the passive mode the NFC initiator also induces a magnetic alternating field for transmitting data to the NFC target. The field s amplitude is modulated in line with the pulse of the data to be transmitted ASK modulation . However after having transmitted a data block the field is not interrupted but continues to be emitted in an unmodulated way. The NFC target now is able to transmit data to the NFC initiator by generating a load modulation. The load modulation is similar to that performed in RFID systems. Further details may be found in standardization documents ISO IEC 15693 14443 et al.

Turning to an exemplary RF tag is disclosed which in this embodiment comprises a QR code in addition to a long SMS code and short SMS code . Tag is preferably embodied as an adhesive sticker that can be affixed to a surface such as a sign billboard or menu. Tag can also be embodied in various configurations and shapes including but not limited to horizontal vertical square circle half circle etc. Under one embodiment users can obtain direct translation of signage using QR code which was described above. Under another embodiment users can obtain direct translation of associated signage by sending the short SMS code to the address indicated by long SMS code . In addition users may obtain translations of signage utilizing radio frequency communication whose circuitry is embedded in tag .

Turning to an exemplary structure is disclosed where an RF chip is embedded in tag . When using RF communications such as NFC the tag operates as a data carrier and contains the translation code programmed into the tag s chip . The chip can include additional circuitry such as static and dynamic memory that is known in the art and is preferably reprogrammable to incorporate multitudes of different codes. Chip is operatively coupled to tag antenna which can be wire or printed using conductive ink or other suitable methods. Print surface can be affixed over the surface of antenna to convey SMS codes and or QR codes illustrated in .

Under one embodiment the tag comprises a filler which can be an epoxy rubber resin and the like which serves to stabilize the chip as well as any additional circuitry embedded into the tag . The additional circuitry can include an external memory or digital signal processing circuits alternately circuitry can be a battery or other power source. It is understood by those skilled in the art that circuitry and the filler is optional and can be omitted depending on the shape configuration and operational needs of the tag. Under one exemplary embodiment an adhesive surface can be constructed on a bottom portion of tag preferably opposite a printed side that would face a user. Using an adhesive on the tag however is merely one configuration. In some embodiments the QR code the long SMS code and or the short SMS code or other triggers are displayed on a video screen or otherwise projected onto a viewable surface. Example video screens include television screens mobile communication device screens and any other screen that converts a video signal to viewable content. Thus the triggers can be presented displayed or otherwise conveyed in any suitable medium or format. Non limiting example mediums include print based mediums video based mediums and audio based mediums.

Turning to an example embodiment depicting the use of an RF tag is illustrated. References of correspond to the same references in the functionalities of each will not be repeated here for the purpose of brevity. In this example embodiment the mobile communications device is within a relatively short distance of an object that is coupled to a tag . The tag can be associated with the content associated with the object . A user may be in close proximity to the object such that a reader antenna from the mobile communications device captures trigger data provided by the tag . The reader of the mobile communications device can be configured to read multiple tags simultaneously. Middleware configured in the mobile communications device can interacts with the reader and communicates the trigger to a content management system. Under one embodiment the tag is pre programmed with the actual translation of the signage to which it is affixed. Under this embodiment the memory portion of the chip or external memory under an alternate embodiment contains a pre stored listing of translations in numerous languages of the signage. As a mobile communications device s antenna communicatively couples to the tag software is triggered on the mobile communications device to select a particular language for translation. In cases where a user s profile contains a preferred pre stored language the tag can automatically transmit the translation to the user device.

To obtain a translation the trigger read from the tag is transmitted to server which can be part of the content management system . The transmission of the trigger can be executed by a software application residing on mobile communications device . Once the trigger is received at server an initial language confirmation message can be transmitted to mobile communications device such as Thank you for requesting translation. Please choose one of the following languages 1 English 2 German 3 French 4 Spanish etc. After making entering the language selection from the language selection list the entry is transmitted back to server . This entry can subsequently be used for providing further translations without needing to interact with the user each time a new translation is requested. Using automated machine translation either in real time time or based on stored translations the server transmits the text into the selected language to mobile communications device that is associated with the tag . The translated text may be in the form of a SMS message or other suitable communication.

One preferred modulation scheme comprises backscatter modulation where the tag coil load is shunted depending on the bit sequence received. This in turn modulates the RF carrier amplitude. The reader detects the changes in the modulated carrier and recovers the data in order to receive the trigger. Encoded binary digits modulate the RF carrier where a 1 represents a high carrier level and a 0 represents a low carrier level i.e. the tag coil is shunted . A reader demodulates the signals to recover the data then decodes the data using suitable decoder and can forwards it to a content management system for further processing.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused discussions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

Any element expressed herein as a means for performing a specified function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function including for example a combination of elements that performs that function. Furthermore the invention as may be defined by such means plus function claims resides in the fact that the functionalities provided by the various recited means are combined and brought together in a manner as defined by the appended claims. Therefore any means that can provide such functionalities may be considered equivalents to the means shown herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A non transitory computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A computer computer system host engine or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures table layouts or report formats described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

In general it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that various embodiments described herein or components or parts thereof may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware or modules thereof. The software code or specialized control hardware used to implement some of the present embodiments is not limiting of the present invention. For example the embodiments described hereinabove may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer programming language such as .NET SQL MySQL or HTML using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Programming languages for computer software and other computer implemented instructions may be translated into machine language by a compiler or an assembler before execution and or may be translated directly at run time by an interpreter. Examples of assembly languages include ARM MIPS and x86 examples of high level languages include Ada BASIC C C C COBOL Fortran Java Lisp Pascal Object Pascal and examples of scripting languages include Bourne script JavaScript Python Ruby PHP and Perl. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments are described without specific reference to the actual software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments of the present invention based on the description herein with only a reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

The computer network may be characterized based on functional relationships among the elements or components of the network such as active networking client server or peer to peer functional architecture. The computer network may be classified according to network topology such as bus network star network ring network mesh network star bus network or hierarchical topology network for example. The computer network may also be classified based on the method employed for data communication such as digital and analog networks.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may employ internetworking for connecting two or more distinct electronic computer networks or network segments through a common routing technology. The type of internetwork employed may depend on administration and or participation in the internetwork. Non limiting examples of internetworks include intranet extranet and Internet. Intranets and extranets may or may not have connections to the Internet. If connected to the Internet the intranet or extranet may be protected with appropriate authentication technology or other security measures. As applied herein an intranet can be a group of networks which employ Internet Protocol web browsers and or file transfer applications under common control by an administrative entity. Such an administrative entity could restrict access to the intranet to only authorized users for example or another internal network of an organization or commercial entity. As applied herein an extranet may include a network or internetwork generally limited to a primary organization or entity but which also has limited connections to the networks of one or more other trusted organizations or entities e.g. customers of an entity may be given access an intranet of the entity thereby creating an extranet .

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

In various embodiments computers and computer systems described herein may have the following main components arithmetic and logic unit ALU control unit memory and input and output devices I O devices . These components can be interconnected by busses often comprising groups of wires or cables. The control unit ALU registers and basic I O and often other hardware closely linked with these sections can be collectively considered a central processing unit CPU for the computer system. The CPU may be constructed on a single integrated circuit or microprocessor.

The control unit control system or central controller directs the various components of a computer system. The control system decodes each instruction in a computer program and turns it into a series of control signals that operate other components of the computer system. To enhance performance or efficiency of operation the control system may alter the order of instructions. One component of the control unit is the program counter a memory register that tracks the location in memory from which the next instruction is to be read.

The ALU is capable of performing arithmetic and logic operations. The set of arithmetic operations that a particular ALU supports may be limited to adding and subtracting or might include multiplying or dividing trigonometry functions sine cosine etc. and square roots. Some may be programmed to operate on whole numbers integers while others use floating point to represent real numbers for example. An ALU may also compare numbers and return Boolean truth values e.g. true or false . Superscalar computers may contain multiple ALUs to facilitate processing multiple instructions at the same time. For example graphics processors and computers with SIMD and MIMD features often possess ALUs that can perform arithmetic operations on vectors and matrices. Certain computer systems may include one or more RAM cache memories configured to move more frequently needed data into the cache automatically.

Examples of peripherals that may be used in connection with certain embodiments of the invention include input output devices such as keyboards mice screen displays monitors printers hard disk drives floppy disk drives joysticks and image scanners.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may divide functions between separate CPUs creating a multiprocessing configuration. For example multiprocessor and multi core multiple CPUs on a single integrated circuit computer systems with co processing capabilities may be employed. Also multitasking may be employed as a computer processing technique to handle simultaneous execution of multiple computer programs.

In various embodiments the systems and methods described herein may be configured and or programmed to include one or more of the above described electronic computer based elements and components. In addition these elements and components may be particularly configured to execute the various rules algorithms programs processes and method steps described herein.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

