---

title: Device management macros
abstract: Mobile device management macros may be provided. A request to perform a function may be received. If the function is associated with a management macro comprising a plurality of operations, the macro may be activated to perform at least some of the plurality of operations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08914013&OS=08914013&RS=08914013
owner: Airwatch LLC
number: 08914013
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130425
---
In some situations mobile devices may be subject to policy controls that prevent or complicate tasks to which users of those devices have become accustomed. For example an Information Technology IT administrator may deploy a policy to devices used by employees of a company that disables access to a mobile application store. In such a conventional approach users who wish to install a new application may simply be denied access to the application store even if the new application would be approved for installation.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is this Summary intended to be used to limit the claimed subject matter s scope.

Mobile device management macros may be provided. A request to perform a function may be received. If the function is associated with a management macro comprising a plurality of operations the macro may be activated to perform at least some of the plurality of operations.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the disclosure s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the disclosure may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the disclosure may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the disclosure. Instead the proper scope of the disclosure is defined by the appended claims.

Device management macros may be provided. A macro may comprise a set of operations to be performed in order to accomplish a function in accordance with one or more management policies. Such macros may comprise an ordered series of steps and or steps that may be performed in any order and or simultaneously.

For example under normal circumstances a mobile device s access to an application store may be disabled. When a user of the device wishes to install a new application a macro may be executed that determines for example whether the specific application is permitted to be installed or if the application falls within an allowed category of applications e.g. productivity enables access to the application store downloads the application disables access to the application store again installs the application and logs an event report to the device and or a management server.

For another example a requested function may require use of a limited and or audited resource such as a data plan or call minute allocation. Similarly the requested function may be one that incurs a financial charge such as the purchase of an application or the use of international data roaming. Such audited resources may be incorporated into the macros as conditional policies that must be satisfied before the requested function is completed.

In some embodiments a determination of whether the requested function is associated with enterprise or personal use may also be made. For example when a data allocation is approaching a monthly limit crossing a first threshold of remaining data e.g. less than 20 remaining may cause requests to retrieve email from a personal account to be postponed to wait until a non metered data connection e.g. wireless instead of cellular is available or be set at longer intervals. Similar requests to retrieve email from a work account however may not meet such restrictions until a second threshold e.g. less than 5 remaining is crossed. In other cases a user s role e.g. executive may allow them to exceed the data allocation without facing these restrictions but an expense record may be prepared for charges associated with exceeding the data allocation.

In some embodiments audited resources may be limited in use when costs exceed a threshold. For example when a mobile device user is traveling internationally rates for data usage may be much more expensive than when the user is in their home country. Macros may be available to allow performance of requested data usage functions up to a limited amount per day for example or may allow only certain data transmissions such as sending and or downloading emails marked as high priority urgent or only downloading new and or unread messages.

Another example of a requested function may comprise a request for secure data. A macro may perform various operations such as activating a virtual private network VPN downloading the data securely waiting for a given period or for an application viewing the data to close wiping the memory segment that had dynamically stored the secure data and deactivating the VPN.

Basic functionality of user device may be provided by an operating system contained in memory . One or more programmed software applications may be executed by utilizing the computing resources in user device . Applications stored in memory may be executed by processor e.g. a central processing unit or digital signal processor under the auspices of operating system . For example processor may be configured to execute applications such as web browsing applications email applications instant messaging applications and or other applications capable of receiving and or providing data.

Data provided as input to and generated as output from the application s may be stored in memory and read by processor from memory as needed during the course of application program execution. Input data may be data stored in memory by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to user device or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application program at the time it was generated as a software application program. Data may be received via any of a plurality of communication ports A C of user device . Communication ports A C may allow user device to communicate with other devices and may comprise components such as an Ethernet network adapter a modem and or a wireless network connectivity interface. For example the wireless network connectivity interface may comprise one and or more of a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect card USB Universal Serial Bus interface PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association card SDIO Secure Digital Input Output card NewCard Cardbus a modem a wireless radio transceiver and or the like.

User device may also receive data as user input via an input component such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a stylus a sound input device a touch input device a capture device etc. A capture device may be operative to record user s and capture spoken words motions and or gestures such as with a camera and or microphone. The capture device may comprise any speech and or motion detection device capable of detecting the speech and or actions of the user s .

Data generated by applications may be stored in memory by the processor during the course of application program execution. Data may be provided to the user during application program execution by means of a display . Consistent with embodiments of this disclosure display may comprise an integrated display screen and or an output port coupled to an external display screen.

Memory may also comprise a platform library . Platform library may comprise a collection of functionality useful to multiple applications such as may be provided by an application programming interface API to a software development kit SDK . These utilities may be accessed by applications as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities thus allowing for memory consumption savings and a consistent user interface.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in conjunction with a graphics library other operating systems or any other application program and is not limited to any particular application or system. The devices described with respect to the Figures may have additional features or functionality. For example user device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape not shown .

User device may comprise a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a set top box a music player a web pad a tablet computer system a game console and or another device with like capability.

User device may store in a data store a device profile and a plurality of user preferences . Device profile may comprise an indication of the current position of user device and or indications of the hardware software and security attributes which describe user device . For instance device profile may represent hardware specifications of user device version and configuration information of various software program and hardware components installed on user device data transmission protocols enabled on user device version and usage information of various resources stored on user device and or any other attributes associated with the state of user device . The device profile may further comprise data indicating a date of last virus scan of user device a date of last access by an IT representative a date of last service by the IT representative and or any other data indicating maintenance and usage of user device . Furthermore the device profile may comprise indications of the past behavior of associated users such as resources accessed charges for resource accesses and the inventory accessed from such resources. User preferences may comprise a listing of factors that may affect the experience of the user. In particular user preferences may include indications of the user s age gender bodily traits preferred resource types preferred venue resources and combinations thereof.

The compliance server may comprise a policy store comprising a plurality of compliance rules and or policies that may be applicable to user device . While the policy store is shown as within the compliance server the policy store may alternately be within the user device and or remotely located on the file server and may be remotely updated periodically by compliance server according to common over the air OTA updating methods. Attempts by user device to perform certain functionality on user device may require user device to be in compliance with one and or more of the compliance policies rules. Depending on the sensitivity of a given functionality different compliance rules may be necessary to ensure that the functionality is adequately restricted. Some functionality may only require ensuring that the proper user is requesting the functionality. Other resources may require compliance with more stringent authorization rules such as determining whether the functionality is restricted during certain time windows. Accordingly user device and or compliance server may be operative to determine whether the user of user device is authorized to perform requested functionality at the time the user requests to perform such functionality.

In some embodiments an agent application executed on user device may make the compliance determination based on the device profile credentials and or user preferences. For instance the agent application may monitor calls by applications such as a web browser an e mail client and or a secure application on user device to the operating system of user device to determine whether user device seeks to perform functionality associated with a given compliance rule. Additionally the agent application on user device may approve and or deny the associated functionality requests. For instance the agent application may instruct operating system on user device to disable the camera of user device in response to a determination that a compliance rule specifies that the camera cannot be used at the time of the request by the user device to operate the camera.

In some embodiments the agent application executed on user device may rely on compliance server to determine whether a given functionality request on user device is permitted according to the compliance rules. For instance the agent application may transmit a functionality request a device profile credentials and or user preferences to compliance server so that compliance server may determine whether user device seeks to perform functionality that may violate a given compliance rule. Additionally compliance server may approve and or deny the associated functionality requests. For instance compliance server may instruct the agent application on user device to instruct operating system to activate a VPN security profile prior to opening a document and or link.

In some embodiments the compliance rules may comprise device settings and or executable instructions that define which functionality the operating system of user device is authorized to perform. Furthermore the compliance rules may comprise a list of functions such as those provided by APIs associated with operating system and or platform library that may be treated as protected functions. Calls to these functions such as calls to retrieve login credentials may result in checks by user device and or compliance server for compliance with the compliance rules.

In some embodiments the agent may perform a set of ordered operations to accomplish a requested function. These operation sets may be defined by the user device and or compliance server and may comprise one and or more operations to determine whether the user device is in compliance with policies from policy store . The agent may control at least one respective computing resource of the user device . The operations may include configuring at least one respective computing resource of the user device such as restricting access to at least one resource managed by the agent .

The Network may comprise for example any type of wired and or wireless network such as a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless wide area network WWAN Ethernet fiber optic network and or any other type of wired and or wireless network now known or later developed. Additionally the Network may be or include the Internet intranets extranets microwave networks satellite communications cellular systems PCS infrared communications global area networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of such networks.

From stage method may advance to stage where user device may determine whether the function is associated with a management macro. For example the agent may comprise a plurality of macros for performing various tasks. An application install macro may comprise a plurality of operations to be performed in response to receiving a request to install a new application while a data transmission macro may comprise operations associated with requests to utilize network .

If the requested function is determined to be associated with a macro at stage method may advance to stage where user device may determine whether the macro s requirements are satisfied. For example the macro may be associated with one and or more policy requirements from compliance server such as requiring that a user have entered some form of authentication e.g. biometric password securID etc. before performing the requested function. In some embodiments the macro s requirements may depend on a determination of whether the requested function is associated with a personal or enterprise task. For example enterprise tasks may require greater security and or may be permitted to perform actions not allowed for personal tasks.

If the macro requirements are determined to be satisfied at stage method may advance to stage where user device may perform at least one of a plurality of operations associated with the macro. For example an application install macro may enable access to a source for the application e.g. a remote server acting as an application store download the application to be installed and disable access to the source once more. For another example the macro may determine whether surcharges e.g. international call data roaming rates or call time data allocation excess charges will apply in performing the requested function request confirmation of the requested action and or create an event log report of the requested function.

Once the macro operations have been performed at stage or if no macro was determined to be required at stage method may advance to stage where the requested function may be performed. For example the requested application may be installed or requested data retrieved and displayed.

If the macro requirements are not satisfied at stage method may proceed to stage where user device may prevent the requested function from being performed. In some embodiments functions that are not associated with management macros at stage may also be prevented from being performed at stage . For example user device may refuse to download and or install the requested new application. Method may then end at stage .

An embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a system for providing device management macros. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a request to perform a function determine whether the function is associated with a management macro comprising a plurality of operations and if so activate the management macro wherein being operative to activate the management macro comprises being operative to performing at least a subset of the plurality of operations. For example when the function comprises a request to install an application one of the macro operations may comprise determining whether the application comprises an authorized application and or whether access to an application source is active

Another embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a system for providing device management macros. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a request to perform a function determine whether the function is associated with at least one of a plurality of management macros each comprising a plurality of operations and in response to determining that the function is associated with the at least one management macro comprising the plurality of operations perform the plurality of operations. When the requested function is not associated with a management macro the processor may be configured to prevent or allow the requested function to be performed.

Yet another embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a system for providing device management macros. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a request to perform a function determine whether the function is associated with a management macro comprising a plurality of ordered operations and in response to determining that the function is associated with the management macro activate the management macro.

The embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate via a multitude of computing systems including wired and wireless computing systems mobile computing systems e.g. mobile telephones tablet or slate type computers laptop computers etc. . In addition the embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate over distributed systems where application functionality memory data storage and retrieval and various processing functions may be operated remotely from each other over a distributed computing network such as the Internet or an intranet. User interfaces and information of various types may be displayed via on board computing device displays or via remote display units associated with one or more computing devices. For example user interfaces and information of various types may be displayed and interacted with on a wall surface onto which user interfaces and information of various types are projected. Interaction with the multitude of computing systems with which embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced include keystroke entry touch screen entry voice or other audio entry gesture entry where an associated computing device is equipped with detection e.g. camera functionality for capturing and interpreting user gestures for controlling the functionality of the computing device and the like. The Figures above and their associated descriptions provide a discussion of a variety of operating environments in which embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced. However the devices and systems illustrated and discussed with respect to the Figures are for purposes of example and illustration and are not limiting of a vast number of computing device configurations that may be utilized for practicing embodiments of this disclosure as described herein.

The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all computer storage media examples i.e. memory storage. Computer storage media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store.

The term computer readable media as used herein may also include communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may describe a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

A number of applications and data files may be used to perform processes and or methods as described above. The aforementioned processes are examples and a processing unit may perform other processes. Other programming modules that may be used in accordance with embodiments of this disclosure may include electronic mail calendar and contacts applications data processing applications word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications slide presentation applications drawing or computer aided application programs etc.

Generally consistent with embodiments of this disclosure program modules may include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that may perform particular tasks or that may implement particular abstract data types. Moreover embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of this disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in an electrical circuit comprising discrete electronic elements packaged or integrated electronic chips containing logic gates a circuit utilizing a microprocessor or on a single chip containing electronic elements or microprocessors. Embodiments of this disclosure may also be practiced using other technologies capable of performing logical operations such as for example AND OR and NOT including but not limited to mechanical optical fluidic and quantum technologies. In addition embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced within a general purpose computer or in any other circuits or systems.

Embodiments of this disclosure may for example be implemented as a computer process and or method a computing system an apparatus device or appliance and or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. Accordingly the present disclosure may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . In other words embodiments of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. A computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific computer readable medium examples a non exhaustive list the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced via a system on a chip SOC where each and or many of the elements described above may be integrated onto a single integrated circuit. Such an SOC device may include one or more processing units graphics units communications units system virtualization units and various application functionalities all of which may be integrated or burned onto the chip substrate as a single integrated circuit. When operating via an SOC the functionality described herein with respect to training and or interacting with any element may operate via application specific logic integrated with other components of the computing device system on the single integrated circuit chip .

Embodiments of this disclosure are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments of the disclosure have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the disclosure.

All rights including copyrights in the code included herein are vested in and the property of the Assignee. The Assignee retains and reserves all rights in the code included herein and grants permission to reproduce the material only in connection with reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.

While the specification includes examples the disclosure s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the disclosure.

