---

title: Method and system for multi-factor biometric authentication based on different device capture modalities
abstract: An approach for enabling multi-factor biometric authentication of a user based on different data capture modalities of a mobile device is described. A biometric enabler receives a request for authentication of a user via a network at a mobile device of the user. The biometric authentication further initiates a capture of media associated with the user at the mobile device based on the request, wherein the capture is based on a capture condition. The biometric enabler also determines, in response to the request, whether the media is associated with different types of biometric information of the user as maintained in association with a resource that requires authentication of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100825&OS=09100825&RS=09100825
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09100825
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130531
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 407 079 filed Feb. 28 2012 entitled Method and System for Multi Factor Biometric Authentication which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been the development of security services e.g. for performing strong authentication of mobile device users based on the capture and analysis of biometric data. Unfortunately users are limited in their ability to control or enhance their experience as they submit media such as voice or video data required for performing the authentication.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for enabling multi factor biometric authentication of a user based on different data capture modalities of a mobile device.

An apparatus method and software for enabling multi factor biometric authentication of a user of a mobile device are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Resources subject to or associated with the authentication procedure may involve a user device e.g. a server workstation mobile device tablet wearable computer data store . Other resources may include an application or service e.g. web service a security system of a facility e.g. building automated teller machine ATM or the like . The procedure supports user controlled multi factor biometric authentication wherein multiple different biometric data types are relied upon for fulfilling an authentication scheme.

For the purpose of explanation biometric authentication pertains to methods for granting access use allocation and or entry to a resource based on the authentication of intrinsic physical or behavioral traits of a person user of interest. Biometric identifiers traits include the distinctive measurable physiological and or behavioral characteristics of the user that enable the repeat distinguishing of one user from another. Physiological characteristics are related to the user s body and may include fingerprint data facial data vein data ear data iris data voice physiology hand geometry retinal geometry or odor scent information. Behavioral characteristics are related to the behavior of the user including but not limited to typing rhythm gait and voice data e.g. a voice print inflection patterns speech patterns .

Traditionally various applications employ the use of voice recognition or face recognition technology as a means of distinguishing the unique characteristics of different users. However conventional systems do not enable the user to adapt how they view themselves as they convey media representative of their voice or face during the recognition procedure. For example in the case where a user is uncomfortable viewing themselves in the camera while video data is being acquired for authentication purposes the user has no recourse. As another example in the case where environmental factors such as low lighting conditions or noise impede the effectiveness of media capture the user cannot readily affect operation of the device to better facilitate the capture. Resultantly the user experience when performing biometric authentication is diminished due to lack of user flexibility.

To address this issue a biometric enabler is configured to operate in connection with the user device e.g. a mobile device and or various resources to permit the gathering and processing of multiple different types of biometric data. This can include for example the gathering of media in the form of voice data representing the user s utterance or voice characteristics concurrent with the gathering of video data of the user s facial characteristics. Also other forms of media to be analyzed as biometric data including iris data retinal data vein data and fingerprint data may also be gathered and processed. Hence the biometric enabler enables multiple different biometric factors to be captured and analyzed for correlating a user s facial expressions coupled with the user s speech vocal expressions.

Still further the biometric enabler is configured to cause execution of one or more modalities of the user device for affecting the gathering procedure. This may include adapting a view of the biometric data being captured as presented to the user while they interact with the user device . This may include for example presenting only a partial view of the user s face rather than a full view as the user faces a camera sensor e.g. sensor . Still further the modality may correspond to a mode of operation of the user device as experienced by the user at the moment of capture. For example this may include executing a voice only mode of operation for gathering of the biometric data or adapting the device for low light conditions. As will be discussed further later on herein the biometric enabler may process one or more user preferences for affecting operation of the sensors the user device that gathers the data or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments media such as video or audio data is gathered in connection with an authentication procedure of the biometric enabler i.e. for biometric analysis. The authentication procedure may be performed in response to a request for biometric authentication of the user as transmitted by services via a network e.g. service provider network . The services referred to collectively herein as services may include any applications tasks or procedures for performing a transaction in association with the user device by way of the network. Alternatively the biometric enabler performs the authentication in response to a non network initiated events such as in the case the authentication request is invoked directly by the user. Invocation of the request may be due to an accessing of the service by the user from the user device .

By way of example the services may include an online banking service for performing a banking transaction a social networking service for performing a social networking transaction a network access service for remotely accessing a private network a security service for accessing a facility or any other service where user authentication is required. Still further the authentication procedure may be initiated by another user device such as in the case where the user device executes a remote access procedure. The authentication procedure may be defined according to instructions and protocols established by the facilitator and or provider of the various resources e.g. services to be allocated accessed used or entered. Such protocols are set forth via one or more resource policies . The resource policies may define the access rights and privileges of various users and or user device for accessing a resource the one or more authentication protocols and procedures to be carried out e.g. the required set of authentication questions to be answered and or responded to by the user contextual conditions to be fulfilled etc. In addition the resource policies may define the order of execution of one or more authentication procedures to be performed with respect to a given resource.

In certain embodiments the biometric enabler employs sensors of a user device to facilitate the gathering of media representative of the voice and facial characteristics of the user. By way of example the user device may include a mobile device of the user that is equipped with a video recorder audio recorder or the like for acquiring voice and or video data associated with the user. The request for authentication may be conveyed to the user device as a message or prompt for the user to verbally and physically respond to various questions commands and or tasks for fulfilling the authentication procedure. The response provided by the user is captured by the sensors of the device for compiling a set of voice video or other data e.g. still image data by way of an infrared light source referred to herein as a response input. User conveyance of the response input may be captured in connection with a specified modality of the user device

For example the authentication request may be presented to a user interface of the user device as a prompt instruction to utter a word a phrase a series of digits from 0 9 or specifically the entire range of digits from 0 9 a specific term etc. As another example the user may be prompted to alter the angle of capture or orientation of the camera user device as they recite a specific phrase or security code. As the user executes these actions a capture modality may be employed for limiting and or adapting the presentment of feedback information i.e. an image of the user as they perform the action. This may include for example presenting only a portion of the user s face as feedback to the display of the user device while they speak into the camera. As yet another example the user may be required to recite a knowledge based authentication challenge e.g. recite their employee user identifier while only their mouth is presented to the display of the user device. By virtue of gathering multiple types of data related to the user in multiple ways the authentication procedure is performed in a manner similar to a video chat session wherein the user looks into the camera sensor while simultaneously speaking into the microphone sensor of the user device . Still further limiting the view of the user as they perform the requested authentication task may accommodate those users that wish not to view their entire face.

In certain embodiments the biometric enabler supports the execution of various media capture modalities of the user device in connection with the authentication request. As mentioned previously the media capture modalities correspond to one or more user preferences for affecting the user experience as they provide a response input to the authentication request. The preferred modality of the user may be specified via profile data maintained in connection with the user. Alternatively the media capture modalities may be defined by or developed in conjunction with the provider of the resource e.g. service for accommodating different authentication schemes. Still further the biometric enabler may accommodate on demand execution of a given modality by a user.

In one embodiment a periocular modality of the user device may be initiated by the biometric enabler . Under this scenario the camera sensor of the user device is configured to focus narrowly on the eyes of the user during the authentication procedure as opposed to the entire face. As such the zoom level viewing scope or other attributes of the camera are adapted for concentration on a limited area of the face. During the authentication procedure the verbal instruction to be recited by the user may be rendered textually to the display along with a view of only the area around the user s eyes. Similarly in another embodiment a partial view modality may also be performed in similar fashion wherein a particular feature of the user s face is the point of focus of the camera. This may include for example a mouth view a single eye view a nose view an ear view etc. Under this scenario for example during the authentication procedure the user may be presented with a view of the eyes along with a view of their mouth but not their entire face.

In another embodiment an alternate image modality of the user device may also be initiated by the biometric enabler . Per this modality instead of being presented with a view of their face during the authentication procedure via the user device the user is presented with an avatar icon or other image. For example per the user preferences the image may be of a favorite celebrity or a preferred social networking avatar of the user as opposed to their face. As another example the user could be presented a view based on ultrasound infrared and or a computer generation of their likeness. Still further the camera may be configured to generate a blurred silhouette outline or other adapted view of the user s face. It is noted that any image for providing visual feedback to the user as an alternative to their face may be suitable for accommodating those who prefer not to view themselves.

Still further an augmented reality modality of the biometric enabler may operate in connection with the user device to support an augmented reality view of the user. Under this scenario the augmented reality modality may support execution of an application or service that enables the display of augmented reality objects at the device .

In one embodiment a low lighting modality of the user device may also be initiated by the biometric enabler . The low lighting modality may be activated in response to the detection of low light conditions of the user device e.g. via mobile device light sensors . Per this modality the user device may detect the user s face using the light from the display screen of the user device the camera flash a ultra violet or infrared light source etc. The device may be operated in a flashlight mode wherein the device is caused to emit a high intensity white light for illuminating the face of the user as they face the screen camera. During this mode the specific commands and or questions pursuant to the authentication procedure may still be rendered to the screen as black colored characters lettering or another contrasting color. It is noted that the view presented to the user during this modality may correspond to an outline of the user s face i.e. as represented by one or more dashed lines corresponding to the features orientation of the face. Furthermore the low light modality may be performed concurrent with the previously described modalities e.g. periocular modality .

In another embodiment the biometric enabler may initiate a noise enhancing modality of the user device . Per this modality the biometric enabler enables the sensors e.g. microphones of the user device to detect and cancel ambient noise. As such the voice related media as captured for performing the biometric authentication procedure can be more reliably processed. Any known means of noise cancellation noise reduction or the like may be performed in connection with the biometric enabler .

In one embodiment one or more of the above described modalities may be automatically executed such as in response to the detection of one or more predetermined contextual conditions. The contextual conditions may be determined as a result of the processing of context information associated with the user device such as location lighting noise temporal or device usage history information. For example in the case where it is historically determined that the user preference is for a periocular modality to be selected and or used this data may be correlated with perceived ease of use analysis metrics for determining future modalities to permit or prevent in response to an authentication request. As another example when sub optimal conditions exist e.g. low light high noise the biometric enabler may default to one or more of the following 

When operating in sub optimal conditions as detected via a context module of the user device the biometric enabler may generate attenuated reduced level of trust confidence scores for the determined authentication result. If for example voice only authentication is performed a lower trust level confidence score may be assigned to the result. This is in contrast to a scenario wherein both voice and face based authentication was performed simultaneously to render an authentication result.

In one embodiment the biometric enabler analyzes the media captured in response to the request according to various data recognition techniques. For example the biometric enabler employs image facial and voice recognition techniques for correlating the media provided as response input with the baseline biometric data as gathered during an enrollment procedure. The enrollment procedure is described more fully later on herein. It is further contemplated that the recognition may be performed in connection with specific pattern and motion recognition techniques for enabling the biometric enabler to identify various bodily gestures and motions unique to the user. The authentication may therefore be predicated upon analysis of voice and facial characteristics of the user in conjunction with a predetermined motion or gesture e.g. a secret facial expression or a specific sequence of facial features .

For the purposes of illustration the analysis e.g. recognition and matching performed by the biometric enabler may be based on the biometric data for the user. By way of example when the biometric data provided as response input during authentication is captured specific portions of the collected data may be compared to biometric data captured during enrollment of said user. Alternatively the entire captured response may be subject to comparison. Any approach or processing technique is within the scope of the exemplary embodiments presented herein. Furthermore it is noted that the biometric enabler may support parallel and or distributed processing of collected data for rendering an authentication result. For example a basic processing e.g. general determination that the data corresponds to a face versus another part of the body of the collected data may be analyzed via the biometric enabler at the device while more complex analysis is performed by a network accessible service module of the biometric enabler .

Still further the user device may perform initial coarse grain biometric authentication confidence score generation. Under this scenario the biometric data is forked to a network to one or more processing resources e.g. service provider where fine grained biometric authentication confidence scores are generated. By way of example a HTML5 browser session on the user device uses the camera and microphone to gather biometric data then forks this data for concurrent local and external processing. Local processing on user device generates coarse biometric authentication scores e.g. based on coarse face e.g. limited number of points measured a limited number of times iris and voice data. Concurrently the forked video and audio data is used along with additional context information to progressively generate fine grain biometric authentication scores based on fine face e.g. several points measured several times vein and voice data using large scale computing resources e.g. in service provider network . An application then uses the coarse and fine grained biometric authentication confidence scores to progressively calculate combined confidence for evaluating user authorization decisions. It is noted that the biometric enabler may be configured to accommodate different processing arrangements accordingly.

The above described approaches and techniques enable the biometric enabler to determine an authentication result. For example when the response input is found to match the baseline biometric data for the user to within a predetermined threshold the authentication procedure is flagged as being complete fulfilled by the user. Resultantly the user is able to perform and or carry out the transaction for which the authentication was required. Alternatively the biometric enabler can return a biometric authentication confidence score e.g. 90 confidence to the requesting service and allow the service to judge the biometric authentication result e.g. pass or fail . When no match is determined however the authentication procedure is flagged as incomplete unfulfilled. Consequently access to allocation of use of or entry to the resource associated with the multi factor biometric authentication procedure is restricted to the user.

In certain embodiments the authentication result may be dependent on the processing of context information conveyed to the biometric enabler at the moment of response input data capture. The context information may include for example location information temporal information network information position information and other data collected by a context module of a device . The context module conveys this information to the biometric enabler . Under this scenario authentication may include validating a location condition time condition or other factor in addition to the biometric analysis. Additionally or alternatively external sensor e.g. video surveillance camera in the user s environment information may be used by context module . Conditional requirements may be specified per the resource policies defined for the resource in question the profile data of the user or a combination thereof.

By way of example a time condition may need to be fulfilled to permit the fulfillment of a wire transfer via an online banking service. In this case the biometric enabler accesses various resource policies for supporting interaction between the user the user device and the online service provider. The user device may include for example a dedicated application for enabling communication exchange between the user device and the service . Alternatively the application may be a browser application or other portal through which the various authentication questions tasks and or commands required for fulfillment of the banking transaction are presented.

A first user may have twenty four hour access to the service for conducting wire transfers by virtue of access rights afforded them by the service provider e.g. based on resource policies . The authentication of the user s biometric data which includes voice and facial expressions thus permits the service to open at any time of the day. In contrast a second user may only be granted the ability to perform wire transfers during normal business hours of the service provider. As a result successful processing of the biometric data during authentication is not sufficient in and of itself to permit execution of the transaction when the current time is beyond business hours.

As another example a just in time JIT authentication procedure may be carried out based on the fulfillment of one or more conditions being met per the resource policies . JIT authentication may include for example triggering of the authentication procedure only when a specified contextual condition is determined. For instance when it is determined a user is attempting to access a device or device for performing a low priority transaction the biometric enabler may allow the user to bypass some steps of the authentication procedure. In contrast when it is determined the user is attempting to perform a high priority transaction e.g. a financial transaction the biometric enabler may prompt the user to proceed with the authentication instructions commands and or questions. In this example the determined priority level of the transaction the type of activity being performed and or the type of resource triggers the authentication procedure in time for enabling access use allocation or entry of the resource accordingly. It is noted that the context information as gathered via the context module may also include activity and or transaction information related to the user the user device or a combination thereof. Context data can be stored on the user device in a service provider network or a combination of both.

In yet another example the biometric enabler may be configured to perform continual authentication of a user in connection with a resource. Continual authentication may include for example triggering of subsequent authentication procedures beyond initial authentication of the user. By way of example a user granted access to a proprietary server after successful completion of an initial authentication may be required to perform the authentication procedure every x minutes thereafter. Under this scenario access to the resource is revoked or interrupted unless the subsequent authentication procedure is carried out. Per this approach the subsequent authentication procedures may still be performed according to the above described modalities i.e. periocular alternative image voice only.

Still further the subsequent authentication procedure may be the same as the initial authentication procedure thus requiring the user to provide the same biometric data as a response input. Alternatively the user may be required to execute different questions tasks and or commands for capturing of biometric data. Thus for the latter the user is prompted to provide a different security passcode challenge phrase or identifier for attaining successively higher levels of authentication with respect to a resource. User biometric data processing can also be performed passively. For example voice and facial biometric data may be captured as the user speaks during a video chat on their mobile phone.

It is noted therefore that the request for authentication of the user may be based on multiple forms of media e.g. voice image video being captured simultaneously for subsequent analysis. By facilitating the capture of various facial gestures mannerisms and expressions in association with data for indicating user voice inflection intonation sound rhythmic patterns etc. the data recognition accuracy of the biometric enabler is enhanced. Furthermore the level of security associated with the authentication process is enhanced as more finely tuned distinct media types are required to perform the recognition process for enabling authentication. This is in contrast to performing recognition based on a static image of the user s face which does not fully account for the different characteristics mannerisms or conditional factors that enhance biometric authentication.

In certain embodiments the biometric enabler may also support the execution of an enrollment procedure. The enrollment procedure allows users to generate baseline biometric data for use in connection with a service i.e. during registration for the service by the user. This biometric data is utilized as a basis for subsequent analysis of the media captured in response to the authentication request to determine if the captured media e.g. video or voice data sufficiently matches the biometric data and therefore fulfills the authentication request in association with the user. Hence the biometric enabler facilitates the capture and subsequent analysis of the media representative of the user wherein the analysis includes comparing the voice data video data etc. or a combination thereof against the previously acquired biometric data for the user. It is noted that the enrollment procedure as described herein must be performed in advance of a request for authentication of the user by a service . In addition the biometric data may be stored in association with a user profile and or resource policy file for defining how a given resource such as the service interacts with the user device to perform the authentication.

For the purpose of illustration herein biometric data may include a combination of specific data points for uniquely identifying a user s physical physiological and or behavioral characteristics. The biometric data may be equivalent to any captured voice face fingerprint iris retinal vein and other data collected in relation to a particular user. Alternatively the biometric data include only a subset of the collected data the subset representing data for indicating only specific points of distinction for a given subject e.g. a user .

The enrollment procedure may include for example one or more instructions to be carried out by the user involving the capture of physical physiological and behavioral characteristics. In certain embodiments the user performs enrollment during an initial registration process with the biometric enabler the service or at a later time. In other instances enrollment may be performed on demand such as to accommodate different resource access or authentication schemes. It is noted depending on the authentication scheme that the enrollment process can be prompted by the resource to be accessed or activated by the user directly e.g. via a user interface for interacting with the biometric enabler . Alternatively the biometric enabler may prompt the user to execute enrollment upon determining no existing or up to date biometric data is available or a greater level of authentication authorization is required for the user.

Any device having the required external and or internal sensors e.g. camera and microphone can be employed by the biometric enabler to conduct enrollment. Under this scenario enrollment is performed via the user device or a different user device such as the user s desktop computer network camera or a workstation featuring camera video capture and audio capture capabilities. By virtue of gathering multiple types of data related to the user enrollment is performed in a manner similar to a video chat session wherein the user looks into the camera while speaking into the microphone. The enrollment procedure may correspond to a set of default instructions and protocols or be defined according to instructions and protocols established by the facilitator and or provider of the various resources services to be allocated accessed used and or entered. Such instructions and protocols are defined by way of one or more resource policies

As noted previously the biometric data captured by way of the multi factor enrollment process described above may be stored in connection with profile data for the user. Per this approach the biometric data for the user serves as a biometric signature profile fingerprint etc. for enabling subsequent reference and or identification of the user for authentication purposes. It is noted that the biometric data includes face and voice biometric baseline data as well as corresponding movement data related to the user thus supporting multi factor authentication.

In certain embodiments the biometric enabler may be offered by a service provider as a managed or hosted solution e.g. as a cloud based service as an integrated component of the user device or a combination thereof. By way of example the user device may interact with the biometric enabler via a network . Under this scenario the various data processing recognition and biometric analysis functions described herein are performed independent of the device . Resultantly any sensor data and context information gathered by the device via sensors or context module is transmitted to the biometric enabler . Results from processing of the data are then returned pushed back the user device

In the case of direct integration of the biometric enabler the various data processing recognition and biometric analysis functions described herein are performed at the device . For example the biometric enabler may be implemented in a chip set with specific input output sequences for use in connection with the operating system of the device the application or a combination thereof. Under this scenario the biometric enabler directly controls the operation of the sensors and context module for receiving voice face and context related data. In certain embodiments the biometric enabler may also distribute the processing such that certain tasks are performed at the device while others are performed via a hosted solution.

It is noted that user devices may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs wearable computer smartphone or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the user devices can support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchange of data. In addition user devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry video gesture recognition voice based input mechanisms and the like. Any known and future implementations of user devices are applicable.

It is also noted with respect to that user device can be a server workstation desktop computer security system ATM kiosk wireless node network adapter or any other standalone or integrated system comprising a collection of resources. In this scenario a resource in the form of a user device is different in arrangement and or configuration than user device and therefore may not include the various components and as employed via user device . The user device may also not feature an application .

In certain embodiments user device the biometric enabler resources and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

Networks may employ various technologies for enabling wireless communication including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Still further the communication provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner the communication networks may support embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

It is noted though not shown in the figure that in certain embodiments user devices may be configured to establish peer to peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies near field communication NFC Bluetooth ZigBee Z Wave infrared etc. Also connectivity can be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of user devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router. Network address translation NAT can also be used to protect the details and configuration of the underlying network topology from becoming known.

In addition the biometric enabler also maintains various databases for storing profile information pertaining to users biometric data as generated for users resource policies and log data pertaining to users or optionally resource providers . It is noted that modules access several of these databases for performing their respective functions.

In one embodiment a registration module registers users and user devices e.g. a mobile device for interaction with the biometric enabler . By way of example the registration module receives a request to subscribe to the biometric enabler for enabling multi factor biometric authentication of a subscribing user. The subscription process may include the generating of enrollment data for use in creating biometric data . The registration may be performed by way of a user interface generated by the user interface module . In addition the registration process may include the selection of various resources the user wants access to. The resources are themselves registered with the biometric enabler and specified by one or more resource policies . As noted the resource policies also indicate various access rights for a particular user with respect to the resources. Preferences and settings information may be referenced to a specific user user device or combination thereof and maintained in connection with profile data

The registration process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription registration process with the provider of the biometric enabler . The login name and or user identifier value may be received as input provided by the user from the user device or other device via a graphical user interface to the biometric enabler e.g. as enabled by the user interface module . Profile data for respective subscribers which contains pertinent user or device profile data may be cross referenced as part of the login or access process. Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained as profile data with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

In one embodiment the request module renders a message to a display of the user device for instructing the user to respond to one or more questions commands or tasks required for biometric authentication. By way of example the request module receives a notification and or a request for authentication of the user from a resource via a network i.e. as a network based request. Under this scenario the resource submits the request such as in response to an attempt by the user of the device to access the resource. As another example the request module may initiate the authentication procedure in response to a non network based request. This may correspond to the case where the user initiates access to a network based application directly from the user device

In one embodiment the condition determination module operates in connection with the request module and context processing module to determine whether a capture condition of the user device is fulfilled. The condition determination module influences the modality behavior operation or performance of the user device during capture of the biometric information related to the user. Under this scenario the condition determination module is invoked in response to receipt of an authentication request via the request module i.e. a network based request. The condition determination module may access profile data related to the user or the user device to identify any user specified preferences or capture conditions. Capture conditions may include for example a lighting condition sound condition or any other environmental condition associated with the user or the user device .

Alternatively the capture condition may be related to an execution preference of the user device as specified via the profile data . The profile data may indicate a preferred authentication execution preference of the user including a capture modality. For the purpose of illustration this may include a periocular modality a partial view modality an alternate image modality a voice only modality etc. As another example the capture condition may relate to an augmented reality modality of the user device a no camera modality or the like.

In one embodiment the context processing module may operate in connection with the condition determination module to gather and subsequently analyze sensor information. The data is processed according to the sensor type i.e. if the sensor is a network detection sensor it processes and interprets the network data e.g. internet protocol address information . Likewise if the sensor is a global positioning sensor the module interprets the gathered data as location and or geo spatial data. Still further a light sensor or sound sensor detects light and sound data.

In one embodiment the recognition engine employs various data recognition techniques for analyzing biometric data. This includes for example voice recognition image and video recognition iris recognition vein recognition motion analysis and the like. The recognition engine also employs facial characteristic analysis. Any known and still developing protocols and algorithms may be employed. The recognition engine processes the data in order to determine a correlation with known biometric data pertaining to the user e.g. as generated via an enrollment procedure .

It is contemplated in certain embodiments that the aforementioned recognition approaches may be used in combination for interpreting the multiple different types of biometric data. It is further contemplated that the motion recognition techniques may be employed for determining user fulfillment of a predetermined motion or gesture e.g. a secret facial expression or a specific sequence of facial features as a live ness test e.g. to prevent pre recorded data from being used or various user mannerisms.

In one embodiment the authentication module may be configured to perform online and or offline processing of media representative of biometric data as provided by a user for performing biometric analysis. The media may include that provided by the user in response to a prompting by the request module . For example in certain implementations the authentication module may perform analysis of the media against known baseline biometric data in conjunction with the recognition engine at the device . Concurrent with this execution more advanced or refined analysis may be performed via a remote analytics service that is accessed via the communication interface . Under this scenario the analytics service processes the response input e.g. face and voice related media using various advanced algorithms then returns the processing result to the authentication module . The various instructions and protocols defining the authentication procedure are processed by the authentication module via one or more resource policies

Still further the authentication module may perform transaction logging wherein the results of the authentication request or the authentication procedure are recorded. For example in the case where the user provided voice input to a request for voice only biometric authentication is successfully performed this result is maintained as log data . The time and date of authentication relevant network information user related information etc. may also be recorded. It is noted that logging of such transactions may support future data inquiry needs including the resolving of information sharing privacy disputes non repudiation issues identity theft disputes or the like.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for prompting the user to provide input for performing the authentication. By way of example the user interface module generates one or more graphics primitives to the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls initiated pursuant to a request. It is noted that the user interface module may coincide with a browser application dedicated application or other interface based software operable at a user device subject to the authentication procedure.

In one embodiment a communication interface enables formation of a session over a network between the biometric enabler and the resources e.g. services . By way of example the communication interface executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a subscriber s user device e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers wearable computers servers workstations and the biometric enabler over the network . It is noted that the communication interface is also configured to support a browser session i.e. the retrieval of content as referenced by a resource identifier during a specific period of time or usage of the browser.

The above presented modules and components of the biometric enabler can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the biometric enabler may be implemented for direct operation by respective user devices . As such the biometric enabler may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the user device for interacting with the resources or the application . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective user devices as a platform hosted solution cloud based service or the like. Under this scenario a biometric enabler as a service access model may be employed such as in connection with a mobile device module a software development kit SDK and corresponding Service Provider Network processing scheme. As such various application developers may incorporate multi factor biometric authentication seamlessly within their applications and or processing schemes. It is noted that the various modules may be used selectively or in combination within the context of a resource allocation or access scheme.

In step of process the biometric enabler receives a request for authentication of a user via a network at a mobile device e.g. user device of the user. As noted previously the request may be presented to the user such as via the device display in response to a user initiated attempt to access a service or other resource from the device. This may include for example the initiating of a transaction via the service that requires use of the network. Alternatively the user may invoke the authentication via a dedicated application at the mobile device e.g. an application designed specifically for a given resource . Resultantly the service or other resource transmits a notification to the device that biometric authentication of the user is required in order for the user to proceed further.

In another step the enabler determines a capture condition of the mobile device. The capture condition may be based on context information gathered by way of various sensors of the device. Context information may include location information a mobile device identifier a resource identifier time information network information light information sound information device or resource usage information or a combination thereof. Additional context information including locomotion i.e. user movement direction speed mobile device radio connectivity and signal strength user s previous location e.g. where they travelled from etc. may also be leveraged. The enabler processes this information to determine a lighting condition temporal condition sound condition usage preference of the user with respect to the device service or resource or other contextual condition associated with the device requiring access to the resource.

In another step the biometric enabler initiates a capture of media associated with the user at the mobile device based on the request for authentication. The media may include for example voice data video data image data odor data or any other data capable of being used for uniquely identifying the user in question. The capture procedure may include for example the presentment of instructions for the user to utter a password sequence of numbers or phrases performance of a particular facial gesture or the like. Per step the enabler determines in response to the request whether the media is associated with different types of biometric information of the user as maintained in association with a resource that requires authentication of the user. As noted previously this may correspond to an authentication analysis wherein the captured media is compared against known baseline biometric data maintained for the user in question. This analysis may be carried out by the biometric enabler by an offline processing agent or a combination thereof based on various data processing and recognition techniques.

In step of process the biometric enabler initiates a capture of context information associated with the mobile device the user or a combination thereof. As noted previously the capture condition may be based on the context information. As such the capture condition includes a light intensity a sound intensity a usage level of the mobile device a usage level of the resource or a combination thereof. In another step the enabler determines a capture modality of the mobile device based on the capture condition a preference of the user or a combination thereof. As mentioned previously the capture modality may correspond to different modes of operation of the device including the following limiting the presentment of captured video data to a predetermined portion of the face of the user preventing the capture of video data related to the user presenting an alternative view of the face of the user presenting an augmented view of the surroundings of the user or a combination thereof.

Per step the biometric enabler adapts a trust level to be associated with the media based on the capture modality. As noted the determination of whether the media is associated with different types of biometric information may be based on the trust level. Of further note the media includes voice data and the capture modality includes cancelling noise associated with the voice data preventing the capture of voice data related to the user rendering one or more other sounds based on the alternative view of the user or the surroundings of the user or a combination thereof.

In step of process the biometric enabler selectively authenticates the user based on the result. The selective authentication corresponds to the biometric authentication procedure as performed concurrent with the user selected capture modality. Hence the authentication is performed in a manner wherein the user is allowed to select a preferred means of capture of the media required for analysis against baseline biometric data. In another step the enabler logs the access use entry execution or allocation of the resource to the user the mobile device or a combination thereof based on the authentication of the user.

In the user initiates the enrollment process by way of an application at their mobile device . The application may execute instructions for enabling it to interface with the biometric enabler via a network wireless link or through direct device control means. Also the application may be a browser or web portal tool capable of interfacing with the biometric enabler via a communication network. Under this scenario the biometric enabler initiates the gathering of a first set of biometric data e.g. baseline biometric data . As such the application is caused to render various commands questions and or task requests to a user interface of the device for execution of the enrollment process. In certain embodiments it is contemplated that the application causes rendering of the various commands questions and or task requests at the time of device activation e.g. when the phone is switched on at the time of initial registration with a service that supports biometric authentication or at the request of the user for later use in connection with a resource.

In an instruction is rendered to the user interface for requesting the user to face into a camera of the device such that an image of their face is shown within a designated viewing area . For the purpose of illustration with respect to the enrollment procedure the viewing area is intended to present a full view of the user s face. Alternatively the biometric authentication request may be automatically initiated such as in response to the opening or activating of the mobile device. Under this scenario no instruction need be rendered to the user interface . In response to the enrollment request the user may adjust the orientation and or position of the mobile device for complying with this request i.e. to adjust the depth of the camera lens accordingly. One or more algorithms may be employed by the biometric enabler for detecting that a face is within view e.g. face detection .

In addition to facing the camera the user is also presented with an instruction to recite all the digits ranging from 0 to 9 as shown in . Alternatively as an additional enrollment requirement and or as a randomly generated authentication challenge the instruction may be for the user to recite various random digits as shown in . The user recites the digits while simultaneously facing the camera of the device . In the recitation is depicted as transmission of an audio signal sound from the user s mouth. As a result biometric data is captured accordingly and the user interface renders a status message for indicating enrollment is underway. A microphone icon is also presented to the user interface for indicating an audio signal is currently being detected and recorded concurrent with the capture of the video data per the enrollment procedure. This video data may be of the user s face but in other use cases may include other images or parts of a user s body e.g. mouth eyes hand etc. . For example a user s mouth movements may be recorded in conjunction with the user s audio speech as they say the numbers 0 9. This information may be parsed and used later in the authentication of the user similar to use under below. By parsing the information the random user command of saying 3 7 may be used to authenticate the user by verifying the mouth movements in conjunction with the audio speech. Alternatively the icon may be a video camera icon for indicating video footage of the user is being captured per the enrollment process. While not shown additional instructions and or commands relative to the authentication procedure may be presented to the user interface accordingly including those instructions pertaining to the capture of retinal iris or vein characteristics.

Once the user responds to all of the questions and the biometric data is recorded an enrollment completion message is rendered to the user interface per . In addition to specifying completion of the enrollment process the message includes a graphic depicting the user s face as well as an icon depicting an audio signal. The graphic and icon and respectively are representative of the multiple different types of biometric data captured via enrollment i.e. for use in generating a baseline biometric profile of the user. In certain embodiments user profile data regarding the user is also presented for specifying the user to which the biometric data correlates. Also a link for enabling the user to further establish various user preferences such as a preferred capture modality of the user device during authentication may also be selected.

In upon selection of the user preferences link the user is presented with various preference settings options for impacting the mode of operation of the user device during execution of the authentication procedure. These settings correspond to that required for impacting the experience of the user such as to ensure user comfort and ease of use of the resource and or the biometric enabler for performance of the authentication. By way of example the preference settings may include a view setting which in the example is set to periocular. Alternative options available to the user however may include a periocular and mouth view an avatar view of the user a computer generated depiction of the user etc.

A low light condition setting may also be activated as OFF or ON for affecting the behavior of the mobile device in response to the detection of a low light condition. Similarly a noise cancellation setting may also be activated as OFF or ON for affecting the behavior of the mobile device in response to the detection of high levels of noise within the proximity of the mobile device . Still further a network initiation setting may be set OFF or ON for affecting the ability of the biometric enabler to operate in connection with the mobile device for enabling network based biometric authentication to commence. Under this scenario the authentication request may be allowed to be received from a corresponding service being accessed by the mobile device via the network.

In as the user attempts to perform the transfer of a sum of money to another account the biometric enabler may retrieve various resource policies established by the provider of the service for determining the user is allowed to perform such transactions. The policies may include details regarding the user s access rights or level thereof with respect to the online banking service the authentication procedure to be performed etc. In this scenario the authentication procedure includes rendering of a security and or authentication command to the user interface the authentication being required to permit the banking transaction to be performed. The command is a request for the user to utter their identifier e.g. customer identifier bank security identifier challenge phrase for capture by a microphone of the mobile device . The authentication procedure also calls for the user to face into the camera of the mobile device such that their face is shown within a viewing area . Under this scenario the capture modality corresponds to a periocular modality of the mobile device such that the viewing area is limited to presentment of only the area surrounding the eyes of the user. Once the user begins speaking the biometric enabler captures the biometric data as response input.

In the same procedure is presented with respect to a partial view modality of the mobile device. Under this scenario the user is presented with a periocular view of their eyes per viewing area along with an additional view of their mouth. The user responds to the commands while facing the camera of the device which dissect the image of the user s face into the respective different views and . Alternatively it is contemplated that the user device may be equipped with multiple different camera sensors for capturing the different areas of the user s face simultaneously.

In the user is presented with an alternate image corresponding to the alternate image modality of the mobile device . Under this scenario the alternate image is an avatar as specified by the user per their user profile. It is noted that any image may be selected for use by the user including an image of their favorite celebrity a symbol a custom text message e.g. You are so handsome etc. Avatar may be animated to mirror the user s facial expressions. Still further the alternate image modality may enable the presentment of a face outline view wherein an outline of the face is presented to the display as one or more dashed lines . It is noted that the biometric enabler may accommodate any images graphics primitives textual elements augmented reality or the like for rendering relevant visual feedback to the user at the display during execution of the authentication procedure.

Once a response input in the form of voice and face data is provided the biometric enabler analyzes the input using various data recognition techniques and algorithms for determining a correlation between the biometric data as captured during authentication against the biometric data compiled during enrollment or user biometric baseline data created from user data e.g. in relation to the seeded biometric baseline data . During this time a status message may be subsequently rendered to the user interface for indicating the authentication process is underway. As noted the recognition schemes may include voice facial ear vein iris retina and motion recognition.

In once the correlation is determined the authentication procedure is deemed complete. Under this scenario an authentication completion message is presented to the user interface for indicating the transfer transaction is allowed. Additionally the recorded information below may be presented to the user interface. Resultantly the biometric enabler generates a record log of the result of this transaction. The record may include temporal information corresponding to the transaction name customer profile location information regarding the user that authorized the transaction the authentication result e.g. SUCCESSFUL or UNSUCCESSFUL the transaction type and amount a confirmation number etc.

The exemplary techniques and systems presented herein enable multi factor biometric authentication of a user based on different data capture modalities of a mobile device. One advantage of the exemplary techniques and systems presented herein is the ability of the biometric enabler to support enrollment and authentication with respect to different user specified operational modes of the device performing the data capture. The result is increased facial recognition accuracy as the nuances of the user s face iris retina ear veins speech patterns gestures etc. are accounted for along with enhanced user comfort during the data gathering process. As another advantage the above described processes and arrangements advantageously permit enhanced security using a multi factor biometric authentication procedure that for example can be implemented utilizing minimal resources and thus can be suitable for mobile devices and users having different preferences.

The processes described herein for enabling multi factor biometric authentication of a user based on different data capture modalities of a mobile device may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk flash disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable multi factor biometric authentication of a user based on different data capture modalities of a mobile device. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

