---

title: Crowdsourced search and locate platform
abstract: A crowdsourced search and locate platform, comprising an application server and a client interface application. The application server: receives connections from crowdsourcing participants; navigates a first crowdsourcing participant to a specific geospatial location; sends an image corresponding to the geospatial location to the first crowdsourcing participant; receives tagging data from the first crowdsourcing participant, the tagging data corresponding to a plurality of objects and locations identified by the first crowdsourcing participant. The client interface application: displays elements enabling an administrative user to configure a crowdsourced search and locate campaign; displays other elements enabling an administrative user to configure and run a crowdrank algorithm; and upon the user's selecting a particular object type icon, displays tags of the type selected by placing visual indicators at each tagged location of objects of the selected type within the plurality of image strips.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09128959&OS=09128959&RS=09128959
owner: DigitalGlobe, Inc.
number: 09128959
owner_city: Longmont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131008
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 841 392 titled CROWDSOURCED SEARCH AND LOCATE PLATFORM filed on Mar. 15 2013 and claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 766 673 titled CROWDSOURCED SEARCH AND LOCATE PLATFORM filed on Feb. 19 2013 and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 010 450 titled CROWDSOURCED SEARCH AND LOCATE PLATFORM filed on Aug. 26 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 839 379 titled CROWDSOURCED SEARCH AND LOCATE PLATFORM filed on Mar. 15 2013 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 766 644 titled CROWDSOURCED SEARCH AND LOCATE PLATFORM filed on Feb. 19 2013 the entire specifications of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention is in the field of image analysis and more particularly in the field of platforms for crowdsourcing image analysis activities.

Image analysis has been an important field of technology at least since the period of World War 2 when extensive use of image analysis photogrammetry and related technologies was used in conjunction with aerial photography for intelligence and bombing damage assessment purposes among others . However the extent of the use of image analysis particularly image analysis of remotely sensed images particularly for identifying or locating targets of interest has always been limited by the need for highly trained specialized image analysts or interpreters. The need for specialized and expensive skills has limited the use of image analysis to a correspondingly limited range of applications notably military homeland defense and law enforcement .

The market for image analysis has also historically been limited by the high cost of obtaining images to analyze. In the military arena the benefits were sufficiently apparent that large numbers of military reconnaissance flights were made over regions of interest since World War 2. But the cost of such flights virtually totally excluded all commercial applications of image analysis. Starting in the 1970s with the Landsat satellite this began to change as low resolution satellite images became publicly available. A series of new satellites has opened up progressively more applications as the resolution spectral coverage geographic coverage and cost per image have all continuously improved accordingly a significant market in commercial remote sensing imagery has emerged. But even this market has been limited from achieving its full potential because of the still present requirement for expensive scarce image analysis talent. Some progress has been made in automated image analysis technologies but for a vast range of current and potential applications large scale image analysis such as would be needed when analyzing satellite images of a large region remains too expensive and too supply constrained to use.

One common type of image analysis problem is the search and locate problem. In this problem what is needed is to find and to precisely locate one or more targets of interest. For example in search and rescue it may be important to find a missing plane using satellite imagery. Another example is the finding and precise location of warships tanks or other military targets of interest. Less common but promising applications include such things as assessing hurricane damage by finding and locating damaged buildings and infrastructure finding and locating potentially important archeological sites for instance by identifying possible ruins in deserts and assessing the scope of a refugee problem by for example counting tents in an area of interest.

Recently the notion of crowdsourcing using very large numbers of people each doing a small part of a large task to accomplish large of complex tasks quickly at extremely low cost has emerged and a number of crowdsourcing platforms have been implemented. Some of these address topics of broad general interest for example Wikipedia and some are more specialized for example GalaxyZoo where users are shown images of objects from the Hubble Space Telescope and asked to decide if the object shown is a galaxy and if so what kind of galaxy it is . Most crowdsourcing platforms to date rely on volunteers to perform the work although some such as Amazon s Mechanical Turk are commercial in nature and pay for crowdsourced work. There have been two general approaches to managing crowdsourced work. In the first a large complex or repetitive task is broken up into many subtasks with each subtask being given to a single worker as workers complete the subtasks the results are rolled up and the overall task is completed at low cost. Generally various means are used to measure the quality or value of the tasks performed by each participant so that over time a reputation or quality score can be assigned to each participant in some cases work is assigned based at least in part on these reputation or quality scores. The work distribution and quality measurement approach is used for example by Amazon s Mechanical Turk platform. A second common approach to crowdsourcing is to use an essentially democratic process to have a crowd decide a difficult question. The process is referred to as democratic because each participant simply votes on what the participants believes the answer to be this is helpful for classification problems such as that described above for GalaxyZoo .

While aspects of both of these problems are relevant to the broad search and locate application domain neither of them is sufficient. Consider the refugee assessment problem just described. The work distribution approach can clearly be used to divide up the task for distribution to many participants typically volunteers . Similarly the democratic approach could be used by the platform to decide whether something is or is not a tent based on the number of votes each classification of a specific object received. But neither of these dominant approaches is satisfactory and the two together are not satisfactory either for the search and locate problem. It is not enough to divide and conquer because in searching an image for a specific object considerable ambiguity will be present and if each image segment is only viewed by a single person there would be a high likelihood of missed targets and indeed of false positives . If multiple participants are shown the same image and a vote is taken to decide if a target of interest is present the outcome is better. but even in this case there are problems. Consider again the refugee problem if there are in fact ten tents in a given field of view image segment various participants might report anywhere from three to twelve tents in the segment. A simple average of these counts could be taken but would likely be inaccurate. But the search and locate problem also requires that the location of each tent be identified at least implicitly it is not so important in this particular problem that the exact location of each tent is known but it is important to use locations to resolve count ambiguities in most search and locate problems though the location aspects is a key output .

What is needed in the art is a platform for crowdsourcing the search and locate class of problems that accurately translates a large amount of crowdsourced inputs into an estimate of the precise locations of a number of targets of interest.

The inventor has developed a platform for crowdsourcing the analysis of images and particularly for analysis of aerial or satellite images to geolocate one or more targets of interest.

A crowdsourced search and locate platform comprising an application server and a client interface application. The application server receives connections from crowdsourcing participants navigates a first crowdsourcing participant to a specific geospatial location sends an image corresponding to the geospatial location to the first crowdsourcing participant receives tagging data from the first crowdsourcing participant the tagging data corresponding to a plurality of objects and locations identified by the first crowdsourcing participant. The client interface application displays elements enabling an administrative user to configure a crowdsourced search and locate campaign displays other elements enabling an administrative user to configure and run a crowdrank algorithm and upon the user s selecting a particular object type icon displays tags of the type selected by placing visual indicators at each tagged location of objects of the selected type within the plurality of image strips.

According to another preferred embodiment of the invention a method for conducting crowdsourced search and locate operations the method comprising the steps of a receiving connections to an application server coupled to a digital packet network from a plurality of crowdsourcing participants b navigating a first crowdsourcing participant to a specific geospatial location c sending an image corresponding to the geospatial location to the first crowdsourcing participant d receiving tagging data from the first crowdsourcing participant the tagging data corresponding to a plurality of objects and locations identified by the first crowdsourcing participant e displays a first plurality of elements enabling an administrative user to configure a crowdsourced search and locate campaign f displays a second plurality of elements enabling an administrative user to configure and run a crowdrank algorithm wherein the crowdrank algorithm takes as input a large number of object tags created by participating users in the crowdsourced search and locate campaign and determines a most likely distribution of actual locations of objects of interest g displays a plurality of image strips that were viewed by participating users in the crowdsourced search and locate campaign and h upon the user s selecting a particular object type icon displays all or a substantial portion of tags of the type selected that were generated by participating users in the crowdsourced search and locate campaign by placing visual indicators at each tagged location of objects of the selected type within the plurality of image strips.

One or more different inventions may be described in the present application. Further for one or more of the inventions described herein numerous alternative embodiments may be described it should be understood that these are presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not intended to be limiting in any sense. One or more of the inventions may be widely applicable to numerous embodiments as is readily apparent from the disclosure. In general embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice one or more of the inventions and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical software electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the particular inventions. Accordingly those skilled in the art will recognize that one or more of the inventions may be practiced with various modifications and alterations. Particular features of one or more of the inventions may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments or figures that form a part of the present disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments of one or more of the inventions. It should be understood however that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or figures with reference to which they are described. The present disclosure is neither a literal description of all embodiments of one or more of the inventions nor a listing of features of one or more of the inventions that must be present in all embodiments.

Headings of sections provided in this patent application and the title of this patent application are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries logical or physical.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. To the contrary a variety of optional components may be described to illustrate a wide variety of possible embodiments of one or more of the inventions and in order to more fully illustrate one or more aspects of the inventions. Similarly although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may generally be configured to work in alternate orders unless specifically stated to the contrary. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described in this patent application does not in and of itself indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of described processes may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to one or more of the invention s and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred. Also steps are generally described once per embodiment but this does not mean they must occur once or that they may only occur once each time a process method or algorithm is carried out or executed. Some steps may be omitted in some embodiments or some occurrences or some steps may be executed more than once in a given embodiment or occurrence.

When a single device or article is described it will be readily apparent that more than one device or article may be used in place of a single device or article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described it will be readily apparent that a single device or article may be used in place of the more than one device or article.

The functionality or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices that are not explicitly described as having such functionality or features. Thus other embodiments of one or more of the inventions need not include the device itself.

Techniques and mechanisms described or referenced herein will sometimes be described in singular form for clarity. However it should be noted that particular embodiments include multiple iterations of a technique or multiple instantiations of a mechanism unless noted otherwise. Process descriptions or blocks in figures should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of embodiments of the present invention in which for example functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

A database or data storage subsystem these terms may be considered substantially synonymous as used herein is a system adapted for the long term storage indexing and retrieval of data the retrieval typically being via some sort of querying interface or language. Database may be used to refer to relational database management systems known in the art but should not be considered to be limited to such systems. Many alternative database or data storage system technologies have been and indeed are being introduced in the art including but not limited to distributed non relational data storage systems such as Hadoop column oriented databases in memory databases and the like. While various embodiments may preferentially employ one or another of the various data storage subsystems available in the art or available in the future the invention should not be construed to be so limited as any data storage architecture may be used according to the embodiments. Similarly while in some cases one or more particular data storage needs are described as being satisfied by separate components for example an expanded private capital markets database and a configuration database these descriptions refer to functional uses of data storage systems and do not refer to their physical architecture. For instance any group of data storage systems of databases referred to herein may be included together in a single database management system operating on a single machine or they may be included in a single database management system operating on a cluster of machines as is known in the art. Similarly any single database such as an expanded private capital markets database may be implemented on a single machine on a set of machines using clustering technology on several machines connected by one or more messaging systems known in the art or in a master slave arrangement common in the art. These examples should make clear that no particular architectural approaches to database management is preferred according to the invention and choice of data storage technology is at the discretion of each implementer without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed.

Similarly preferred embodiments of the invention are described in terms of a web based implementation including components such as web servers and web application servers. However such components are merely exemplary of a means for providing services over a large scale public data network such as the Internet and other implementation choices may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. For instance while embodiments described herein deliver their services using web services accessed via one or more webs servers that in turn interact with one or more applications hosted on application servers other approaches such as peer to peer networking direct client server integration using the Internet as a communication means between clients and servers or use of mobile applications interacting over a mobile data network with a one or more dedicated servers are all possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly all references to web services web servers application servers and an Internet should be taken as exemplary rather than limiting as the inventive concept is not tied to these particular implementation choices.

As used herein crowdsourced refers to the use of large numbers of participants each working independently of the others over the Internet to accomplish a complex or large or both task provided by a requesting entity. Generally the task is divided into many subtasks each of which can be completed satisfactorily by a human without reference to any other information beyond what is provided with the subtask. These subtasks are distributed by a crowdsourcing platform to many different participants some of whom receive more or less subtask volume based on quality cost willingness or other parameters. In some cases participants pull subtasks from an inventory of pending subtasks. Some subtasks may be submitted to more than one participant while others may be provided only to one participant. As each participant completes the subtasks assigned or pulled the resulting work is aggregated by the platform and a completed set of results for the overall task is provided to the original requesting entity.

As used herein crowdsourcing campaign refers to a specific instance of a crowdsourcing application used to solve a specific problem. For instance a crowdsourced image analysis platform of the invention facilitates image analysis by many users a crowdsourcing campaign organizes such activities and such users for a specific image analysis problem. For example a crowdsourcing campaign might be set up and operated whose goal is to find a downed airplane. Generally the crowdsourcing platform will be configured generally for a plurality of campaigns but a specific campaign will have its own configuration in the example given the campaign s configuration would include the expected region of interest and imagery associated with it particular details about how to distribute image analysis tasks in the campaign what criteria will be used to identify to a requesting entity when a target of interest is identified and what confidence level exists for the identification and so forth.

As used herein search and locate refers to a general class of problems wherein a set of images is searched for particular classes of targets such as buildings tanks railroad terminals downed airplanes etc. . It is common that the set of images may be searched to find more than one class of targets for example to find all targets of military interest although single target class searches may also be performed find all cars . Moreover in some cases it may be known or presumed in advance that only a single target of interest exists a lost climbing party or a downed airplane while in most cases the number of targets present in a given image set is unknown. The second part of the search and locate problem is to precisely locate any resulting targets of interest where is the down plane or lost party of climbers .

As used herein image analysis refers to the analysis of images obtained from one or more image sensors generally a single analysis task focuses on a set of images of a single region of interest on the earth. Satellite and aerial imagery are common examples of imagery that are subjected to large scale image analysis. However the invention described herein is not limited to common remote sensing image analysis problems associated with satellite and aerial imagery. For example analysis of large image sets from traffic cameras may be performed using techniques described herein.

As used herein a requesting entity is a person or organization that requests a specific set of crowdsourced image analysis campaigns to be carried out via a crowdsourcing platform. That is a crowdsourcing platform may be operated by a single organization specialized in hosting such a platform and be made available to a wide range of requesting entities i.e. third parties who may sign up for manage and pay the platform operator to execute various crowdsourcing campaigns. For example a government agency seeking to augment a search and rescue operation may be a requesting entity setting up an image analysis campaign on a crowdsourcing platform.

As used herein a participating user is a person or a group of persons that participates in a crowdsourcing campaign as a provider of service. Crowdsourcing relies on distributing tasks to a crowd that crowd is comprised of participating users.

As used herein tags are data points created by a participating user s tagging a specific point as corresponding to a specific target type. For instance a participating user may place his cursor over a location on an image that was presented to him and select tank in order to generate a tag that states that a tank is present in that image at that location.

Generally the techniques disclosed herein may be implemented on hardware or a combination of software and hardware. For example they may be implemented in an operating system kernel in a separate user process in a library package bound into network applications on a specially constructed machine on an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or on a network interface card.

Software hardware hybrid implementations of at least some of the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on a programmable network resident machine which should be understood to include intermittently connected network aware machines selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in memory. Such network devices may have multiple network interfaces that may be configured or designed to utilize different types of network communication protocols. A general architecture for some of these machines may be disclosed herein in order to illustrate one or more exemplary means by which a given unit of functionality may be implemented. According to specific embodiments at least some of the features or functionalities of the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on one or more general purpose computers associated with one or more networks such as for example an end user computer system a client computer a network server or other server system a mobile computing device e.g. tablet computing device mobile phone smartphone laptop and the like a consumer electronic device a music player or any other suitable electronic device router switch or the like or any combination thereof. In at least some embodiments at least some of the features or functionalities of the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented in one or more virtualized computing environments e.g. network computing clouds virtual machines hosted on one or more physical computing machines or the like .

Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting an exemplary computing device suitable for implementing at least a portion of the features or functionalities disclosed herein. Computing device may be for example any one of the computing machines listed in the previous paragraph or indeed any other electronic device capable of executing software or hardware based instructions according to one or more programs stored in memory. Computing device may be adapted to communicate with a plurality of other computing devices such as clients or servers over communications networks such as a wide area network a metropolitan area network a local area network a wireless network the Internet or any other network using known protocols for such communication whether wireless or wired.

In one embodiment computing device includes one or more central processing units CPU one or more interfaces and one or more busses such as a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus . When acting under the control of appropriate software or firmware CPU may be responsible for implementing specific functions associated with the functions of a specifically configured computing device or machine. For example in at least one embodiment a computing device may be configured or designed to function as a server system utilizing CPU local memory and or remote memory and interface s . In at least one embodiment CPU may be caused to perform one or more of the different types of functions and or operations under the control of software modules or components which for example may include an operating system and any appropriate applications software drivers and the like.

CPU may include one or more processors such as for example a processor from one of the Intel ARM Qualcomm and AMD families of microprocessors. In some embodiments processors may include specially designed hardware such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and so forth for controlling operations of computing device . In a specific embodiment a local memory such as non volatile random access memory RAM and or read only memory ROM including for example one or more levels of cached memory may also form part of CPU . However there are many different ways in which memory may be coupled to system . Memory may be used for a variety of purposes such as for example caching and or storing data programming instructions and the like.

As used herein the term processor is not limited merely to those integrated circuits referred to in the art as a processor a mobile processor or a microprocessor but broadly refers to a microcontroller a microcomputer a programmable logic controller an application specific integrated circuit and any other programmable circuit.

In one embodiment interfaces are provided as network interface cards NICs . Generally NICs control the sending and receiving of data packets over a computer network other types of interfaces may for example support other peripherals used with computing device . Among the interfaces that may be provided are Ethernet interfaces frame relay interfaces cable interfaces DSL interfaces token ring interfaces graphics interfaces and the like. In addition various types of interfaces may be provided such as for example universal serial bus USB Serial Ethernet Firewire PCI parallel radio frequency RF Bluetooth near field communications e.g. using near field magnetics 802.11 WiFi frame relay TCP IP ISDN fast Ethernet interfaces Gigabit Ethernet interfaces asynchronous transfer mode ATM interfaces high speed serial interface HSSI interfaces Point of Sale POS interfaces fiber data distributed interfaces FDDIs and the like. Generally such interfaces may include ports appropriate for communication with appropriate media. In some cases they may also include an independent processor and in some instances volatile and or non volatile memory e.g. RAM .

Although the system shown in illustrates one specific architecture for a computing device for implementing one or more of the inventions described herein it is by no means the only device architecture on which at least a portion of the features and techniques described herein may be implemented. For example architectures having one or any number of processors may be used and such processors may be present in a single device or distributed among any number of devices. In one embodiment a single processor handles communications as well as routing computations while in other embodiments a separate dedicated communications processor may be provided. In various embodiments different types of features or functionalities may be implemented in a system according to the invention that includes a client device such as a tablet device or smartphone running client software and server systems such as a server system described in more detail below .

Regardless of network device configuration the system of the present invention may employ one or more memories or memory modules such as for example remote memory block and local memory configured to store data program instructions for the general purpose network operations or other information relating to the functionality of the embodiments described herein or any combinations of the above . Program instructions may control execution of or comprise an operating system and or one or more applications for example. Memory or memories may also be configured to store data structures configuration data encryption data historical system operations information or any other specific or generic non program information described herein.

Because such information and program instructions may be employed to implement one or more systems or methods described herein at least some network device embodiments may include nontransitory machine readable storage media which for example may be configured or designed to store program instructions state information and the like for performing various operations described herein. Examples of such nontransitory machine readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks magneto optical media such as optical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions such as read only memory devices ROM flash memory solid state drives memristor memory random access memory RAM and the like. Examples of program instructions include both object code such as may be produced by a compiler machine code such as may be produced by an assembler or a linker byte code such as may be generated by for example a Java compiler and may be executed using a Java virtual machine or equivalent or files containing higher level code that may be executed by the computer using an interpreter for example scripts written in Python Perl Ruby Groovy or any other scripting language .

In some embodiments systems according to the present invention may be implemented on a standalone computing system. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting a typical exemplary architecture of one or more embodiments or components thereof on a standalone computing system. Computing device includes processors that may run software that carry out one or more functions or applications of embodiments of the invention such as for example a client application . Processors may carry out computing instructions under control of an operating system such as for example a version of Microsoft s Windows operating system Apple s Mac OS X or iOS operating systems some variety of the Linux operating system Google s Android operating system or the like. In many cases one or more shared services may be operable in system and may be useful for providing common services to client applications . Services may for example be Windows services user space common services in a Linux environment or any other type of common service architecture used with operating system . Input devices may be of any type suitable for receiving user input including for example a keyboard touchscreen microphone for example for voice input mouse touchpad trackball or any combination thereof. Output devices may be of any type suitable for providing output to one or more users whether remote or local to system and may include for example one or more screens for visual output speakers printers or any combination thereof. Memory may be random access memory having any structure and architecture known in the art for use by processors for example to run software. Storage devices may be any magnetic optical mechanical memristor or electrical storage device for storage of data in digital form. Examples of storage devices include flash memory magnetic hard drive CD ROM and or the like.

In some embodiments systems of the present invention may be implemented on a distributed computing network such as one having any number of clients and or servers. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting an exemplary architecture for implementing at least a portion of a system according to an embodiment of the invention on a distributed computing network. According to the embodiment any number of clients may be provided. Each client may run software for implementing client side portions of the present invention clients may comprise a system such as that illustrated in . In addition any number of servers may be provided for handling requests received from one or more clients . Clients and servers may communicate with one another via one or more electronic networks which may be in various embodiments of the Internet a wide area network a mobile telephony network a wireless network such as WiFi Wimax and so forth or a local area network or indeed any network topology known in the art the invention does not prefer any one network topology over any other . Networks may be implemented using any known network protocols including for example wired and or wireless protocols.

In addition in some embodiments servers may call external services when needed to obtain additional information or to refer to additional data concerning a particular call. Communications with external services may take place for example via one or more networks . In various embodiments external services may comprise web enabled services or functionality related to or installed on the hardware device itself. For example in an embodiment where client applications are implemented on a smartphone or other electronic device client applications may obtain information stored in a server system in the cloud or on an external service deployed on one or more of a particular enterprise s or user s premises.

In some embodiments of the invention clients or servers or both may make use of one or more specialized services or appliances that may be deployed locally or remotely across one or more networks . For example one or more databases may be used or referred to by one or more embodiments of the invention. It should be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art that databases may be arranged in a wide variety of architectures and using a wide variety of data access and manipulation means. For example in various embodiments one or more databases may comprise a relational database system using a structured query language SQL while others may comprise an alternative data storage technology such as those referred to in the art as NoSQL for example Hadoop MapReduce BigTable and so forth . In some embodiments variant database architectures such as column oriented databases in memory databases clustered databases distributed databases or even flat file data repositories may be used according to the invention. It will be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art that any combination of known or future database technologies may be used as appropriate unless a specific database technology or a specific arrangement of components is specified for a particular embodiment herein. Moreover it should be appreciated that the term database as used herein may refer to a physical database machine a cluster of machines acting as a single database system or a logical database within an overall database management system. Unless a specific meaning is specified for a given use of the term database it should be construed to mean any of these senses of the word all of which are understood as a plain meaning of the term database by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Similarly most embodiments of the invention may make use of one or more security systems and configuration systems . Security and configuration management are common information technology IT and web functions and some amount of each are generally associated with any IT or web systems. It should be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art that any configuration or security subsystems known in the art now or in the future may be used in conjunction with embodiments of the invention without limitation unless a specific security or configuration system or approach is specifically required by the description of any specific embodiment.

In various embodiments functionality for implementing systems or methods of the present invention may be distributed among any number of client and or server components. For example various software modules may be implemented for performing various functions in connection with the present invention and such modules can be variously implemented to run on server and or client components.

With this basic architecture in mind regarding the connections between participating users and application server specific aspects of the invention will now be described. Before participating users can participate in a crowdsourcing campaign a requesting entity must set up the campaign. Requesting entity and administrative users interact with application server via the Internet and web server just as participating users do a single PC with monitor and browser is shown in to represent administrative and requesting entity users it should be noted of course that only PC is shown for brevity as with participating users administrative requesting entity users may use any suitable Internet capable computing device according to the invention . Requesting entity users will generally create and manage crowdsourced image analysis campaigns and will view results of such campaigns possibly adjusting the settings of such campaigns as a result of such reviews to improve the performance of such campaigns . Once a campaign is set up it may be activated by the requesting entity at which point participating users may join the campaign and thereupon start receiving image analysis tasks associated with the campaign to perform. In a preferred embodiment images are delivered form database to participating users by application server via web server and participating users interact with such images in web browsers using tools provided by application server . In some embodiments however third party crowdsourcing platforms such as Amazon s Mechanical Turk may be used to manage a crowdsourced image analysis campaign using images and requirements provided by application server or directly from database .

As noted above in the background section one common challenge in search and locate problems which is not addressed by current crowdsourcing techniques which as noted use either or both of the work distribution with quality measurement and the democratic voting techniques is the problem of accurately finding and locating targets of interest using crowdsourcing. The shortcomings of the two main crowdsourcing approaches work distribution and voting are different for each approach. The work distribution approach is still useful in search and locate problems but it is not adequate by itself as it does not provide a means for locating targets of interest particularly when many participating users tag the same target of interest often with varying locations generally nearby but in some cases even quite distant from each other . The voting approach while excellent for ranking reputations is this a good song or not or for classification problems is this a tank or not does not handle continuous variations of input data well. That is voting is good when there is a small set of possible options which is this a dog a cat or a skunk the resulting tallies for each discrete element of the set can be compared and a winner selected it s a cat . But when the input provided by participating users is not only the presence of an object but also its two dimensional location or even three dimensional location the simple voting approach does not help to answer the question where is it really 

Accordingly in a preferred embodiment platform further comprises a CrowdRank service which may be stored and operating on a single network attached server coupled to application server . In some embodiments CrowdRank service operates on a large number of independent machines whose activities may be coordinated using an approach such as the well known map reduce technique. CrowdRank service takes as inputs a typically large set of tags from many participating users. Fundamentally CrowdRank service implements a CrowdRank algorithm described in detail below that attempts to determine a most likely set of targets that are present in an image using a large amount of tagging data obtained from participating users viewing the same or related images. Because location tagging is an inherently noisy process people vary widely at a minimum in addition some viewers may view an image at higher resolution than others while some may tag an extensive object at its centroid while others tag it at various points on its edges and so forth . Therefore it will usually be the case that tag data input to the CrowdRank service is very noisy for example if there are several targets of interest close to each other in the real world i.e. in the place from which the image was taken at the time the image was taken the inevitable inaccuracies in users tagging may result in for example a single cloud of nearby tags that might be interpreted as belonging to a single target of large extent but actually belongs to two or more real targets. The CrowdRank algorithm may optionally take as input one or more sets of prior data for instance regarding the quality of a specific set of participating users previous tagging work such prior data will as described below be used to improve the time to convergence of the algorithm. Given these inputs the CrowdRank algorithm uses an iterative expectation minimization process to generate as outputs three sets of data. The first is an array of quality scores for the taggers the participating users who created tags as part of the crowdsourcing campaign whose data is being analyzed by the CrowdRank algorithm . The second is an array of difficulty scores for each tagged target. The third is an array of estimated locations of actual targets comprising for each target data such as the latitude and longitude of the target the type of the target tank railroad car damaged building debris field etc. and a confidence level in the identification.

Fundamentally the CrowdRank algorithm is focused on identifying an underlying hidden variable the real targets that existed at a time of interest using incomplete data the tagging data which won t necessarily have tags for all of the real targets and which may have many tags for each real target . In order to move from the inputs principally tag data each tag comprising a tag identifier a tagger identifier a location latitude and longitude or a UTM grid point and easting and northing values for the offset from that UTM grid point the CrowdRank algorithm carries out a key data transformation the uses a modified iterative expectation minimization EM algorithm to generate a set of intermediate outputs then performs a clustering on the interim outputs to arrive at the final CrowdRank output. The details will be described below but at a high level the initial data transformation involves converting straightforward geolocation information a series of tags generated by participating users into a set of agreement disagreement data meaning agreement or disagreement among the participating users of the input set . Also since EM algorithms known in the art take an input vector and a parameter vector and attempt to identify a vector corresponding to a hidden variable of which the input vector represents a possibly noisy subset in the CrowdRank algorithm the vector of quality scores and the vector of difficulty scores are mathematically combined and treated as the parameter vector for EM algorithm purposes.

From a use case perspective what is accomplished using platform includes setting up by requesting entities image analysis campaigns running the campaigns to generate tag sets from participating users displaying the results to one or more requesting entity users and using the CrowdRank algorithm with the results as input to generate an estimate of ground truth that is an estimate of the actual targets of interest and their locations and displaying the same to the requesting entity users.

Once a campaign has been selected by or for a participating user in step the user may navigate to a specific map section to carry out tagging operations that is to attempt to identify and locate targets of interest in the map section to which the user has navigated . Again as in campaign selection in some embodiments automated action may be taken in step rather than allowing a user to manually select a map section for viewing. For example it may be important that users are not provided information about the actual map location that is grid coordinates or latitude and longitude of map sections as they view them and carry out tagging operations. In some cases it may be important that users are unable to identify the actual physical location of a target of interest on the earth s surface for instance to prevent looting of valuable archaeological sites . Accordingly users may be navigated automatically in step by being shown successive map sections without their spatial locations or relationships being known. In some embodiments platform may enforce a sampling regimen wherein various map segments are assigned probability levels of having targets of interest in them or interest levels and the number of participating users who are encouraged or made to view specific map sections may vary accordingly more users might be assigned to more interesting promising or difficult map sections . Similarly in some embodiments users may be provided an option to manually navigate or to have the system navigate for them for instance they could be provided a next button or a surprise me button as well as a small map of an entire interesting region via which they can manually navigate by selecting a map segment using for example a computer mouse or a touchpad . Once a participating user is in i.e. viewing a particular map segment the user tags all relevant objects targets of interest in that section in step of course it should be apparent that not all users will find all actual targets in any given map segment skill persistence and interest level among other variables may cause some to tag only a subset and others to tag false targets of interest and so forth . In some embodiments in step a participating user may view agreement data while tagging objects. For example when a user moves a graphical cursor to a specific map location and selects an action e.g. tag as tank a graphical indicia may be displayed advising the user how many other users placed a similar tag there or within a reasonable and configurable distance from the user s cursor location in some embodiments a second graphical indicia such as a colored cursor may be provided to indicate a position of the centroid of a set of other users tags effectively indicating to the participating user information such as ten other people tagged a tank but the group locates the tank at this slightly different location . Accordingly users may be provided a means to edit their tags for example by clicking and dragging their tag onto the marked centroid position or to adjust its position relative to an underlying image feature as desired . When editing is completed in step a user may simply move on to make another tag or may be provided with a positive confirmation means such as a clickable Tag button to indicate that a particular tag will no longer be edited but a new tag may be placed in the current map segment. In some embodiments some or all users may not be shown agreement data for example to encourage open minded tagging by suppressing feedback from other users activities.

In step once a participating user is finished tagging objects in a specific map section typically because either the user is bored with a particular map section or the user believes she has tagged all targets of interest the user may navigate to another map section again manually or automatically and resume carrying out method in step . In step when a user is finished either because the user decides to complete their tagging session or because a campaign setting is reached for instance a campaign might specify that no user should do more than ten map sections at a time then in step the user exits method typically by navigating away from the web page provided by platform for participating users .

It should be noted that the method just described is one way of assigning agreement and disagreement values others are possible according to the invention as well. For example consider that the radius may represent a circular kernel with the tag of interest at its center. If another tag were inside the kernel it could be considered to agree with the tag of interest. One can then extend the idea of a kernel to include any arbitrary shapes and one can assign agreement values that are between zero and one for example depending on distance from the center . As an example of such an approach when detecting roads or other straight line type of features the kernel could be a long skinny ellipse. The ellipse could be rotated through all possible angles the angle for which the highest number of other nearby tags agree would be the one that is chosen and then used to establish agreement and disagreement values which again may be binary or continuously valued . Of course other shapes could also be rotated for example an X shape could be used to detect road intersections. Similarly disagreement also can be assigned in many possible ways. The way described above corresponds to a disagreeing tag s falling inside of one kernel while falling outside of another. Or a tagger who views an area of another user s tag but does not agree automatically disagrees. In this case it is not a tag disagreeing with another tag but rather it is another user disagreeing with a tag of interest. In some embodiments it is desirable to send users to a specific discrete set of locations in order that it may be definitely established that two or more users saw exactly the same thing in which case disagreement can be more readily ascertained and with a higher degree of confidence .

Once L has been expanded as described in step in step initial values are assigned for arrays A B and Z. A is an array comprising one element for each unique tagger participating user who has provided at least one tag to L. Each element of A may comprise a tagger identifier the unique identifier for a specific participating user a mean quality of tags made by the specific tagger and a standard deviation of the quality of tags made by the specific tagger. Quality means in a preferred embodiment a value from 1 to 1 where 1 means the specific tag by a specific tagger is completely malicious known to be false 1 means the specific tag by the specific tagger is completely trustworthy known to be true a value less than 0 but not equal to 1 means the tag is more likely than not to be malicious and a value greater than 0 but less than 1 means the tag is more likely than not to be reasonable i.e. not malicious . A value of 0 indicates that a tag is inaccurate but not malicious. Initial values of the elements in A may be either loaded from database as priors or may be instantiated for each tagger identifier with default values such as 0 mean 0 standard deviation . Similarly quality values may be assigned based on disagreement for instance a user may see a really obvious object to tag and not tag it either because he is inept or malicious. Each element of B may comprise a tag identifier the unique identifier for a specific tag a mean difficulty of the tag as made by various taggers that is if many taggers identified a tank at a location the difficulty scores for each such tag are averaged and a standard deviation of the difficulty of the tag as made by various taggers. Difficulty means in a preferred embodiment a value from 0 to 1 where 0 means the specific tag is very easy very likely to be correctly tagged by a random tagger and 1 means the specific tag is very hard very unlikely to be correctly tagged by a random tagger . Initial values of the elements in B may be either loaded from database as priors or may be instantiated for each tag identifier with default values such as 0.5 mean 0 standard deviation . Each element of Z may comprise a tag identifier the unique identifier for a specific tag and a probability value which represents the probability that the specific tag is correct meaning it correctly tags a real object . Initial values of the elements in Z may be either loaded from database as priors or may be instantiated for each tag identifier with default values for the probabilities for each tag such as 0.5 . Recall that L is a set of input obtained from users attempting to tag objects in images it is assumed that there is a hidden variable representing the set of all actual targets of interest in the region covered by the images so the probabilities in Z represent the likelihood that a given tag represents an actual object in the specific geospatial location associated with the tag in question. The goal of method is to obtain maximized at least locally values of Z given parameter sets A and B. Accordingly in step the expectation step an expectation of the maximum likelihood P that Z reflects the underlying hidden variable the actual targets of interest in the image field given the parameter vectors A and B is computed in the normal way using the current values of A and B. Then in step vectors A and B are merged into a single vector AB note that each element of A and of B has form ID Mean StdDev so merging the two vectors by concatenation creates a single vector comprising elements of the same form in preparation for carrying out the maximization step. Then in step the maximization step is carried out by estimating a new value ABbased on ABby iteratively computing the argument of the maximum of Q Z AB over all Z where Q is computed in the normal way. Once this is done the vector AB is unpacked into its components A and B in step and in step a test is made to determine whether either a configured maximum number of EM iterations has occurred requiring termination to avoid possible endless loops and to limit the time of operation of the CrowdRank algorithm or whether the change in AB is less than a configured minimum meaning convergence has occurred if either of these conditions is met then method moves to step and the final values of A B and Z are output by CrowdRank service to the user or application that originally requested the CrowdRank algorithm to be executed. If neither of the conditions of step is met then in step the new values of A and B taken from the unpacked AB and Z determined as part of the maximization step are returned and execution resumes again at step for another iteration of the EM algorithm.

According to various embodiments of the invention interface may also be used by requesting entity users to review results of a crowdsourced image analysis campaign for example by viewing an image with some or all user generated tags visible. In such uses 

The skilled person will be aware of a range of possible modifications of the various embodiments described above. Accordingly the present invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

