---

title: System and method for relevance-based social network interaction recommendation
abstract: System and method for recommending to a member of a social network an interaction with ones of a plurality of entities. Events related to individual ones of the plurality of entities are obtained. A relevance of ones of the events to the member is determined based on at least one characteristic of ones of the events and a trait of the member. Recommended interactions with ones of the plurality of entities individually related to the ones of the events based on the relevance for each of the events are presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619846&OS=09619846&RS=09619846
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09619846
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130528
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 817 050 filed Apr. 29 2013 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RELEVANCE BASED SOCIAL NETWORK INTERACTION RECOMMENDATION which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to social network interaction and systems and methods for recommending same.

Contemporary social networks may provide recommendations to users of the social network. The recommendations may be based on a comparison of a member s profile with information about another entity related to the social network. For instance a social network may compare the member s profile with data related to another member and conclude that the members may want to incorporate one another into their respective social graphs such as by the members make a connection in the social network. By further example a social network may compare a shared piece of content on the social network with the profile of the member and recommend the shared content to the member.

Example methods and systems are directed to the generation of relevance based social network interaction recommendations. Examples merely typify possible variations. Unless explicitly stated otherwise components and functions are optional and may be combined or subdivided and operations may vary in sequence or be combined or subdivided. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident to one skilled in the art however that the present subject matter may be practiced without these specific details.

Such recommendations described above may be presented from the perspective of establishing new contacts in the social network or presenting new content to a social network member. Such recommendations may not however be based on the maintenance of existing social network connections and relationships. For instance while a social network may provide recommendations for the creation of new connections the social network may not provide recommendations related to improving the relationship between an existing connection.

Further to whatever extent the social network may for instance provide an indication that it is a member s birthday and solicit birthday wishes for the member such recommendations may be oblivious to the relevance of the event to the members to whom the information is displayed. For instance one member s birthday message may simply be distributed to all of the member s connections. Similarly while certain information may be selectively displayed to certain members of the social network such as only to members of a particular group such information may not be or include a recommended interaction within the social network and may not be based on any particular relevance of the information to the individual members of the group the fact that a member belongs to a group relating to their high school graduating class may not have any relevance to a professional article posted to the group by another group member.

A social network system and method has been developed that obtains social network events determines the relevance of each of the events to a member of the social network and presents recommended interactions to the member based on the relevance of the various events. The nature of the events may be diverse. For instance the event may reflect a milestone such as a birthday anniversary change of status employment location etc. and the like. The event may reflect an action or accomplishment such as an entity making a publication. Or the event may reflect inaction such as a certain amount of time having passed since a member has interacted with a particular entity. The relevance may take into account various factors such as elapsed time social connection strength social connection history and interaction outside of the social network itself.

In some examples the social network includes a message publishing module such as may be utilized to receive content such as messages posts links images videos and the like and publish the content to the social network. The message publishing module or the social network generally may include a recommended interaction module . As will be disclosed in detail herein the recommended interaction module may generate and present such as via the message publishing module recommended interactions for particular members of the social network based on a relevance of various events such as are stored in the data layer or obtained via the application server module the message publishing module and or the social network generally.

As illustrated the data layer includes but is not necessarily limited to several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Consistent with some examples when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database with reference number or another database not shown . With some examples the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. With some examples importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some examples a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some examples does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph shown in with reference number .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some examples the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some examples members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some examples the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content viewed links selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database with reference number . This information may be used to classify the member as being in various categories. For example if the member performs frequent searches of job listings thereby exhibiting behavior indicating that the member is a likely job seeker this information can be used to classify the member as a job seeker. This classification can then be used as a member profile attribute for purposes of enabling others to target the member for receiving messages or status updates. Accordingly a company that has available job openings can publish a message that is specifically directed to certain members of the social network service who are job seekers and thus more likely to be receptive to recruiting efforts.

The profile data database and the member activity database may among other sources in the social network include or store events . Such events include but are not limited to birthdays anniversaries change of status employment location etc. a publication and a previous interaction.

Although not shown with some examples the social network provides an application programming interface API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to various content streams maintained by the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

The user interface is a user interface such as may be generated by the user interface module and displayed on a user device such as a personal computer tablet computer smartphone or any device configured to display a webpage network connected application or other information displaying mechanism. The user interface includes a menu field an update stream and information fields . The menu field may be utilized to select various specific functions of the social network . The update stream may present general information related to the social network including relating to various events . The information fields may present information including recommendations advertisements and statistics related to the social network and may include events . While the user interface as illustrated may be optimized for a particular user device such as a personal computer or a tablet computer it is to be understood that the user interface may be optimized for various devices and that such user interfaces may incorporate different fields and or information than what is illustrated with respect to the user interface as illustrated.

The social network may at times present recommended interactions in one or more of the information fields or elsewhere in the user interface . For instance the recommended interactions may appear in the update stream or as a popup window or other information display mechanism. The recommended interaction as displayed in the information field may include a link that when clicked produces a popup window with additional information.

As illustrated the recommended interaction includes a title a summary related events and a text field for inputting a message related to the recommended interaction . Various recommended interactions may omit one or more items such as related events where such items do not apply to the particular recommended interaction . For instance if the recommended interaction is relates to congratulating a writer on a new publication the related event may include a link to the publication. By contrast if the recommended interaction relates to a member having moved to a new city the related event may either be omitted or may present information related to the new city.

The title may be a short descriptor of the recommended interaction such as a few words or a short sentence. The summary may be a relatively longer descriptor such as one or more sentences related to the recommended interaction and a description of an event or events that underlie the recommended interaction . The text field may be initially blank or may come pre populated with a recommended message that may be modified by the member for transmittal to the entity related to the recommended interaction as detailed below. The text ultimately entered into the text field may be transmitted to the entity relating to the recommended interaction such as by email instant message text and other forms of communication.

In an example a recommended interaction may be a reminder that a certain amount of time has lapsed since a member has communicated with an entity such as another member of the social network . For instance a member may set a time period of six 6 months since a previous communication with an entity upon which a recommended interaction may be presented to the member with a title Reconnect a summary noting the passage of time since the previous communication and a pre populated message Hey it s been a while how are you doing may be included in the text field .

In an example a recommended interaction may be a notification that an entity such as another member as moved to the same geographic area as the member corresponding to the user interface. The text field may include a pre populated message Welcome to town Let s get together soon. In another example a recommended interaction may be a notification that an entity such as another member has published an article. The related event may include a link to the article and the text field may include a pre populated message Congrats on the new article 

Additional events that may be the subject of recommended interactions include but are not limited to birthdays work anniversaries new jobs being included in a news story participation in an upcoming event and the like. It is noted that any event may be the subject of a recommended interaction. However whether a recommended interaction comes with a related event link or a pre populated message in the text field may depend on whether a type of event has been previously categorized and a pre populated message generated. Events that have not been previously categorized may nevertheless be the subject of a recommended interaction but may have relatively less rich associated content.

An event may also be based on aggregate individual events . For instance an entity such as an individual or a company may have a certain consistent baseline of activity in news articles such as by being mentioned in the article. In an example an entity is mentioned in searchable news articles an average of ten times per day over a six month period. In an example references to the entity may increase to twenty times per day over a period of a week. While each reference in an article may count as an event the increase in references may also be identified as an event . In an example an increase in the references to an entity in news articles of at least one standard deviation may qualify as an event .

The recommended interaction module may produce recommended interactions for display on the user interface based on a relevance of various events to a member of the social network corresponding to the user interface . In an example the recommended interaction module may obtain or otherwise monitor events as produced by the social network and optionally stored in the various databases . Additionally as will be discussed below the recommended interaction module may obtain events from sources outside of social network such as from the Internet or other network sources.

On the basis of the events the recommended interaction module may generate recommended interactions but the recommended interaction module may limit a number of recommended interactions actually sent to the message publishing module for display on the user interface . The number of recommended interactions that are sent to the user interface may be limited to a predetermined number that may be selected so as to prevent clutter or to reduce a likelihood of the member finding the number of interactions display to be overwhelming. In various examples the number of interactions displayed on the user interface may be limited to from three 3 to five 5 .

The recommended interaction module specifically or the social network generally may prioritize recommended interactions whether in the initial generation of the recommended interactions or upon the recommended interactions having been generated but not yet transmitted to the user interface for display to the member. As such the recommended interaction module may generate some or all of the recommended interactions and then determine the most relevant recommended interactions to the member. Alternatively the recommended interaction module specifically or the social network generally may either pre assess events for relevance prior to generating associated recommended interactions or may assess relevance of events and or recommended interactions concurrently with the generation of the recommended interactions and stop generating new recommended interactions upon the recommended interaction limit having been met.

The recommended interaction module may determine a relevance of a recommended interaction or a potential recommended interaction such as based on an underlying event based on one or more traits of the member to whom the recommended interaction is going to be presented and one or more characteristics of the event . The trait may be from profile data of the member such as may be stored in the profile database . The characteristic of the event may be determined from the nature and details of the event itself and or from the entity related to the event .

In an example individual traits and characteristics of the member and event respectively may be paired and assessed cumulatively as a weighted average or according to other methods known in the art. For instance if the event is an employee s anniversary at a company a relevance factor may be high if the member is also an employee of the company or is a follower of the company on the social network may be lower if the member is in the same industry as the company or may be low to none if the member is neither employed by the company nor in the same industry.

Relevance may be based on activity within the member s social graph such as may be stored in the social graph database . For instance even if a particular article published by an entity has no substantive relevance to the member relevance may be identified based on a reaction of parts of the member s social graph to the article. If multiple connections from the member s social graph read commented on liked or otherwise interacted with the article the article may be determined to be relevant to the member. For instance relevance may be based on the actual number of social graph connections that have interacted with the article.

Relevance may be determined from a variety of factors. In the above example relevance may be determined further based on the social connectedness of the member and the employee. For instance the anniversary may be of relatively high relevance to the member if the employee is a family member or friend with whom the member has a strong connection strength on the social network . Connection strength may be measured by an amount or frequency of communication on the social network the number of shared acquaintances on the social network and other connectedness factors. Similarly if the member and the employee are not closely connected on the social network such as because they are not related or only infrequently communicate the relevance may be low. Such information may be available in the social graph database .

Relevance may be further determined by a connection density between the member and the employee. For instance in addition to communication over the social network itself connection density may be determined by a number of other forums over which the member and the employee may communicate. For instance the social network may be informed as to communication between the member and the employee via other social networks email text telephone video chat and the like. In such examples the social network may be granted access at least to the existence of the communication if not the content of the communication by outside sources via the Internet or a network. Relevance may be determined by a number of communication platforms over which the member and the employee communicate if other social networks are used along with email and text relevance may be higher than if the employee and member are only known to communicate over the social network .

Relevance may thus be based on factors specific to the event such as the comparison of employers in the above example and factors related to the member and the entity associated with the event rather than the event itself. In various examples only factors specific to the event are considered for relevance. In various examples only factors related to the member and the entity are considered.

In various examples relevance values for employees from the same company may be higher than in cases where the individuals involved are not employees of the same company. In an example relevance may be obtained by assigning values to various factors and summing or averaging the values. For instance in the above example a relevance value for employees from the same company may be a 1 while a relevance value for individuals who are not from the same company may be a 0 . Alternative examples may provide for more factors or differentiation. For instance a relevance value for employees from the same company may be a 3 a relevance value for the member following the company may be a 2 a relevance value for the member being in the same industry as the company may be a 1 and a non relationship to the company may produce a relevance value of 0 .

Upon acquiring the relevance values for the event in relation to the member the values may be summed averaged or otherwise manipulated to determine an overall relevance score for the event . In an example all events related to the member are given an overall relevance score and the events and or the associated recommended interactions are selected by choosing the events recommended interactions with the highest relevance up to the predetermined limit. In various examples a minimum relevance threshold may be applied such that even if the maximum recommended interactions limit is not reached only recommended interactions that meet the minimum relevance are presented on the user interface .

As noted above recommended interactions may be based on a variety of events that affirmatively occur and events that occur through omission of an action. Thus for instance the recommendation interaction module may consider communication between the member and an entity both on the social network and or elsewhere and not for instance that there has been a decline in communication between the member and the entity generally. For instance the recommendation interaction module may note that the member and the entity had typically communicated at least weekly up until six 6 months ago but that communication has fallen off and is now not more than monthly. In such a scenario the event may be that communication between the member and the entity has been relatively low for six 6 months and that a recommended interaction may be generated and presented to the member notifying the member of that fact and recommending a message to promote additional communication.

Relevance may have a time factor depending on the event . For instance a birthday event may have relevance only on the day of the birthday or for just one or two days after the birthday. Conversely a change of location such as from moving to a new city may be relevant for a month or more after the actual occurrence of the event . The relevance for events may be weighted based on the passage of time and the weight may vary for different types of events . Events may be categorized with the weight decaying quickly for certain events moderately for other events and slowly for other events . For instance a fast decay may reduce total relevance by one third for every day after the occurrence of the event a moderate decay may reduce total relevance by one third for every three days to one week after the occurrence of the event and a slow decay may reduce total relevance by one third for every two weeks after the occurrence of the event . Thus a birthday which may have a fast decay may have no relevance after two or three days a work anniversary which may have a moderate decay may have no relevance after one to two weeks a change of location may have no relevance after one to two months.

Relevance may be further modified based on prior member interaction with the recommended interactions as presented to the user. For instance if the member seldom or never congratulates an employee on a company anniversary the weight applied to anniversaries may be reduced. Relatedly if a member usually or always responds to birthday recommended interactions the weight applied to birthdays may be increased.

Recommended interactions may be presented to the member according to a variety of durations. For instance a recommended interaction may be presented once and then not again regardless of whether or not the member followed ignored or dismissed the recommended interaction . Alternatively ignored recommended interactions may be persistently displayed until acted upon ignored or until the relevance of the event has dropped below the relevance threshold.

At a relevance of ones of the events to the member is determined based on at least one characteristic of ones of the events and a trait of the member. In various examples the relevance for at least one event is based at least in part on an interaction by a second member of the social network with the event. In an example the second member has a social network connection with the member. In an example the member has received a previous recommended interaction and the relevance for at least one event is based on a reaction by the member to the previous recommended interaction.

In various examples the relevance is based on a time since the event occurred. In an example the relevance is based on a relation between the at least one characteristic of the event and the time since the event occurred. In an example the relevance is based on an amount of prior communication between the member and the entity. In an example the relevance is based on a number of forums in addition to the social network over which the member and the entity have communicated.

In an example at least one of the trait of the member and the characteristic of the entity is at least one of a social network connection with at least one of the plurality of entities an employment status a geographic location and prior communication with the entity outside of the social network. In an example the relevance is a numerical relevance and wherein presenting the recommended interactions comprises displaying only recommended interactions with a numerical relevance greater than a predetermined minimum value

At recommended interactions with ones of the plurality of entities individually related to the ones of the events based on the relevance for each of the events are presented to the member. In an example presenting the recommended interactions includes displaying not more than a predetermined maximum number of recommended interactions

The machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC or any suitable combination thereof a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The machine may further include a graphics display e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The machine may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored the instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within the processor e.g. within the processor s cache memory or both during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the main memory and the processor may be considered as machine readable media. The instructions may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

As used herein the term memory refers to a machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. software for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processor cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to one or more data repositories in the form of a solid state memory an optical medium a magnetic medium or any suitable combination thereof.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone computer system a client computer system or a server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically electronically or any suitable combination thereof. For example a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may be a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an ASIC. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may include software encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the phrase hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where a hardware module comprises a general purpose processor configured by software to become a special purpose processor the general purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special purpose processors e.g. comprising different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules may provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and may operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions described herein. As used herein processor implemented module refers to a hardware module implemented using one or more processors.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented a processor being an example of hardware. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. Moreover the one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. an application program interface API .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or any suitable combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information. Furthermore unless specifically stated otherwise the terms a or an are herein used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one instance. Finally as used herein the conjunction or refers to a non exclusive or unless specifically stated otherwise.

