---

title: Combined radar assembly with linear and nonlinear radar
abstract: A radar assembly for linear and nonlinear radar transmission and reception comprising a signal generator; at least one filter operatively connected to the signal generator; a transmitter operatively connected to the at least one filter for transmitting radar signals; a receiver operative to receiving received signals comprising linear and nonlinear responses from the reflected transmitted signals; the receiver comprising a first channel for processing the linear response of the received signal; a second channel for the processing the nonlinear response of the received signal; at least one switch operative to select one of the first or second channels; at least one high pass filter operatively connected to the second channel to attenuate the linear response; at least one amplifier to amplify the nonlinear response; and at least one display operatively connected to both the first and second channels for displaying both linear and nonlinear responses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09476973&OS=09476973&RS=09476973
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09476973
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130920
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties.

A computer program listing appendix has been submitted via EFS Web labeled as codeappendix containing Appendices A through K. The material contained in the Appendices A through K is incorporated by reference herein as though rewritten fully herein.

In the current state of operations occasions arise such that threats or targets must be detected at a standoff distance. Some threats contain components whose permittivity contrasts substantially with that of the emplacement such is the case with many threats that are buried. The reception of a subsurface linear radar response from an area whose surface is otherwise undisturbed indicates the presence of a threat. Others threats contain metal contacts and semiconductor junctions whose nonlinear electromagnetic response contrasts with that of the emplacement such is the case with radio frequency RF electronics. The reception of a nonlinear radar response from an area that does not otherwise contain electronics indicates the presence of another class of threat. Often threats contain dielectric as well as electronic components hence they will respond to both linear and nonlinear excitation and either linear or nonlinear radar with detect such as threat. Hence there exists a need to detect both types of threats whether or not they are collocated using a single assembly or unit.

A preferred embodiment comprises a combined radar assembly with linear and nonlinear modes. Either mode linear nonlinear may detect a threat or target. By switching between two radar modes additional information about the threat is received and thus the probability that it is detected is improved.

A preferred embodiment radar assembly for linear and nonlinear radar transmission and reception comprises at least one signal generator at least one filter operatively connected to the signal generator a transmitter operatively connected to the at least one filter for transmitting radar signals and a receiver operative to receive signals comprising the linear and nonlinear responses from the reflected transmitted signals. The receiver further comprises a first channel for processing the linear response from the received signal a second channel for the processing the nonlinear response from the received signal and at least one switch operative to select one of the first or second channels through at least one switch. At least one high pass filter is operatively connected to the second channel to attenuate the linear response and at least one first amplifier is operatively connected to the at least one high pass filter to amplify the nonlinear response. The receiver further comprises at least one analog to digital converter for converting the analog received signal to a digitized data stream and at least one display operatively connected to both the first and second channels for displaying both the linear and nonlinear responses.

Optionally the assembly may comprise two signal generators connected to a signal combiner. Optionally the signal generated by the at least one signal generator is a single tone pulse a modulated chirp pulse having a carrier frequency that begins at a first frequency and increases linearly over a predetermined time interval or a stepped frequency chirp pulse.

An alternate preferred embodiment radar assembly for linear and nonlinear radar transmission and reception comprises a signal generator at least one first filter operatively connected to the signal generator at least one first amplifier operatively connected to the at least one filter a transmitter operatively connected to the at least one filter for transmitting radar signals and a receiver operative to receiving the received signals comprising the linear and nonlinear responses from the reflected transmitted signals. The receiver comprises a first channel for processing the linear response from the received signal a second channel for the processing the nonlinear response from the received signal at least one switch operative to select one of the first or second channels through at least one switch at least one high pass filter operatively connected to the second channel to attenuate the linear response at least one second amplifier to amplify the nonlinear response and at least one display operatively connected to both the first and second channels for displaying both the linear and nonlinear responses.

Optionally the at least one first filter the at least one first amplifier and the at least one transmitter may operate to process both linear and nonlinear radar signals. The signal generator may generate both linear and nonlinear radar waveforms. The single generator may generate a single tone pulse a linear frequency modulated chirp pulse or a stepped frequency chirp pulse.

An alternate preferred embodiment radar assembly for linear and nonlinear radar transmission and reception comprises a base a transmitter for transmitting linear and nonlinear radar signals operatively associated with the base a receiver operative to receive signals comprising linear and nonlinear responses from the reflected transmitted signals the receiver being operatively associated with the base the transmitter operating to transmit linear radar signals in a first mode and nonlinear radar signals in a second mode and the receiver operating to receive linear responses from the reflected transmitted signals in the first mode and nonlinear responses from the from the reflected transmitted signals in the second mode at least one antenna operatively associated with the receiver and the transmitter and at least one switch operatively associated with the receiver for selecting between the first and second modes.

Optionally the receiver and transmitter may be mounted on the base. Optionally the transmitter may comprise a linear radar transmitter portion and a nonlinear radar transmitter portion and the at least one antenna may be alternately connected to the linear and nonlinear radar transmitter portions by the at least one switch. Optionally the receiver may comprise a linear radar receiver portion and a nonlinear radar receiver portion and the at least one antenna is alternately connected to the linear and nonlinear radar receiver portions by the at least one switch.

A more complete appreciation of the invention will be readily obtained by reference to the following Description of the Preferred Embodiments and the accompanying drawings in which like numerals in different figures represent the same structures or elements. The representations in each of the figures are diagrammatic and no attempt is made to indicate actual scales or precise ratios.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements channels and or sections these elements channels and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and channels or sections these terms are only used to distinguish one element channel section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element channel or section discussed below could be termed a second element channel or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a combination of linear and nonlinear radar that detects a set of targets greater than either radar can detect alone.

Linear radar is well suited to the detection of a target whose complex permittivity circumflex over contrasts greatly with that of its surroundings circumflex over 1 where is the real part and is the imaginary part of the permittivity. The permittivity of a material relative to that of free space is its dielectric constant circumflex over 

Assuming normal incidence i.e. the direction of propagation of the wave is normal to the boundary of the target the reflected wave is 

The frequency of the reflected wave is the same as that of the incident wave but its amplitude is scaled by the reflection coefficient . For 1 0 the target is transparent to the radar wave traveling in air and there is no reflection.

As the contrast in between a target and that of the medium through which the radar wave is propagating increases the strength of the radar reflection from that target increases. The value of for a typical conductor e.g. aluminum is greater than 10S m. Thus conductive targets are very detectable even if they are buried or obscured by insulators. For insulators is near zero but can take on a wide range of values from 1 for dry foam up to 80 for distilled water. Thus insulating targets are not as detectable as their radar reflections depend much more strongly on .

Nonlinear radar exploits a completely different phenomenon it relies on the nonlinear electromagnetic properties of a target to convert a portion of the incident radar wave into a reflected wave at a different frequency. Most materials found in nature are electromagnetically linear with the exception of ferromagnetics while many man made materials are electromagnetically nonlinear. Semiconductor devices such as radios and cell phones are highly nonlinear.

A simple model for radio frequency RF electromagnetic nonlinearity is the memoryless power series given by 

A preferred embodiment combined radar detects targets using linear as well as nonlinear reflective responses. The linear radar detects targets whose permittivity contrasts with that of the background while the nonlinear radar detects targets whose electromagnetic properties produce a change in frequency between the incident and reflected waves.

Linear radar can be implemented in different ways commonly designated by the transmit waveform such as continuous wave CW pulsed single tone or chirp. To achieve an ultra wide bandwidth for ground penetration as well as imaging resolution the Army Research Laboratory ARL designed the Synchronous Impulse Reconstruction SIRE radar as described in F. Koenig M. Ressler G. Smith L. Nguyen and R. Harris Synchronous Impulse Reconstruction SIRE radar sensor U.S. Army Research Laboratory Adelphi Md. Technical Report ARL TR 4661 November 2008 herein incorporated by reference. The SIRE radar uses a single cycle impulse waveform two transmit antennas 16 receive antennas and multiple data traces collected while the radar platform is in motion in order to form high resolution images of surface and shallow buried targets. are linear radar waveforms for impulse and stepped frequency respectively. A single cycle impulse and its spectrum are illustrated in . An alternative design that allows for more flexibility in the transmitted band is the stepped frequency waveform illustrated in . Both impulse and stepped frequency waveforms are broadband. For the impulse the peak power is high but the average power is low. For the continuous stepped frequency signal the peak power and the average power are the same. Either waveform will provide linear detection and ranging.

One advantage of a stepped frequency design however is that its underlying switched frequency signal source is likely able to dwell on a single frequency for a long period of time. As dwell time increases while transmitting the same average power in a tone or a series of tones the side lobes caused by interrupting the transmission e.g. turning the source off or switching to another tone diminish. This extended dwell time is necessary in order to minimize reflected linear side lobes from nonlinear reflections which are usually very weak.

Nonlinear radar can also be implemented in different ways. One popular technique is to transmit a single frequency fand receive the target response at the second harmonic of the transmitted tone 2f as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 870 519 to Dr. Gregory J. Mazzaro et al. entitled Multizone Harmonic Radar and Method of Use herein incorporated by reference. A slight variation of this technique tracks a Doppler shift at 2ffor moving targets. See for example A. Singh and V. Lubecke Respiratory monitoring and clutter rejection using a CW Doppler radar with passive RF tags vol. 12 no. 3 pp. 558 565 March 2012 herein incorporated by reference. Other variations chirp see for example C. Stagner A. Conrad C. Osterwise D. G. Beetner and S. Grant A practical superheterodyne receiver detector using stimulated emissions . vol. 60 no. 4 pp. 1461 1468 April 2011 or digitally modulate see for example V. Polacek and R. Pavlik The use of digital modulation signals in radar system for detection of nonlinear scatterers in pp. 743 747 September 2011 the transmit waveform for greater noise rejection. Another common technique is to transmit two tones fand fand receive the intermodulation tones 2f fand 2f f see for example A. F. Martone and E. J. Delp Characterization of RF devices using two tone probe signals in 14 pp. 161 165 August 2007 . A technique recently developed at ARL transmits at least two tones and receives not only a harmonic of the transmitted tones e.g. 2fand 2f but also the mixing products of those tones near that harmonic e.g. 3f f f f 3f fas described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 870 519 to Dr. Gregory J. Mazzaro et al. entitled Multitone Harmonic Radar and Method of Use herein incorporated by reference. illustrates examples of transmit and receive spectra for a nonlinear radar that transmits one tone and receives harmonics of that tone. shows examples of spectra for a radar that transmits two tones and receives harmonics as well as mixing products near those harmonics.

A common architecture for transmitting and receiving waveforms for both linear and nonlinear radar is necessary in order to minimize the size weight and power of the combined radar system. One preferred embodiment combines a wideband stepped frequency approach with a narrowband two tone nonlinear approach is given in .

The signal sources are two stepped frequency waveform generators A B. As an alternative the generators A B may be pulsed. For linear transmission a single source B is amplified by amplifier mixed by mixer amplified by amplifier and applied to the transmit antennas at terminal . Mixer is an upconverting mixer for the transmitter. Its function is to change the frequency of the original baseband low frequency signal to an appropriate radio frequency high frequency signal for transmission and excitation of the nonlinear response from a target.

For nonlinear transmission the outputs of the two sources A B are combined filtered by filters and amplified by amplifiers and applied via terminal and switch to the transmit antennas . Note that the switch alternates between contact with terminal to transmit nonlinear radar to terminal to transmit linear radar .

At the receiving end for linear reception the signal is received by receiver antennas and switch selects the output of one of the receiver antennas and passes the signal to the base of switch . Switch alternates between terminals and . For linear reception the signal is amplified by amplifier and lowpass filtered by low pass filter and downconverted by mixer filtered at filter and inputted to an analog to digital converter . Mixers and are downconverting mixer. Their function is to change the incoming radio frequency signal to a baseband signal suitable for digitization and ultimate decision as to the presence of a target . For nonlinear reception the signal is highpass filtered by filter amplified by amplifier downconverted by mixer and filtered by bandpass filters with an amplifier therebetween . Separate analog to digital converter ADC units are used for linear and nonlinear signal capture. The ADC in the linear chain will likely be wideband at a lower bit resolution in order to determine precise ranging for linear responses. The ADC in the nonlinear chain will likely be narrowband at a higher bit resolution in order to maintain a high dynamic range in the receiver to detect weak nonlinear responses. A pair of RF switches switch in the transmitter and switch in the receiver switched in tandem adjust the mode of operation of the radar between linear and nonlinear. Transmitting from more than one antenna e.g. the two depicted in increases the overall aperture for illuminating targets of interest. Receiving from more than one antenna e.g. the four depicted in improves signal to noise ratio SNR and allows for the angle of arrival to the target to be determined. Stepping and or pulsing the transmit waveform from A B allows the range to the target to be determined.

The preferred embodiment comprises a transceiver comprising a transmit chain that generates waveforms that are appropriate for both linear and nonlinear modes of operation and a switchable receive chain which captures either linear or nonlinear responses from a radar target. The response to be exploited by the nonlinear receiver may for example be the second harmonic of the transmitted waveform.

After the transmit waveform has reflected from the target and been received an imaging algorithm can be used to process the reflections for localization. A time reversal based multiple signal classification TR MUSIC algorithm is proposed to generate the images using the steady state harmonic response as described in D. Liao A hybrid approach for characterizing linear and nonlinear electromagnetic scattering Theory and applications U.S. Army Research Laboratory Adelphi Md. Technical Report ARL TR 6261 November 2012 herein incorporated by reference. For M nonlinear targets and N transmit receive antennas the received signal at frequency freceived at the array due to excitation at frequency fby the n th transmitter is . . . 10 where r n 1 2 . . . N is the location of the n th array element r m 1 2 . . . M is the location of the m th target f f is the scattering coefficient of the m th target and G r r f is the Green s function of the radar environment. From equation 10 the signal subspace is spanned by the Green s function vectors G r f r f . . . G r f i.e. the target locations are encoded within the subspace representation of the received signal. After invoking reciprocity the frequency domain N N multi static matrix for the antenna array can be written

The four waveforms selected for the linear nonlinear transmitter are the single tone pulse the multitone pulse the linear frequency modulated FM chirp and a stepped frequency pulse.

A mathematical representation for a single tone pulse produced by an arbitrary waveform generator AWG is cos 2 14 with a carrier frequency f. The amplitude Ais computed from the power of the envelope of the pulse P in decibels referenced to 1 mW by square root over 10 2 50 10V mV . 15 

The pulse modulation is given by the switching waveform s t 16 which has a period T and a duty cycle D. The pulse is active during the time interval T. An example of an RF pulse generated by a Tektronix AWG7052 is given in . A Matlab function which generates a single tone RF pulse is given in Appendix A.

It should be noted that a signals presented in the following description were captured in time by a Lecroy Wavemaster 8300A oscilloscope and in frequency by an Agilent N9342C spectrum analyzer b the sampling rate of the 8300A oscilloscope was 20 GS s and the resolution bandwidth of the N9342C analyzer was 1 kHz and c the amplitude of each waveform is less than Acomputed by equation 15 due to the loss introduced by the 8 ft RG 58 Subminiature Version A SMA cable which feeds each of the signal capture instruments.

If instead of a single RF carrier frequency multiple frequencies are active during the pulse a multitone pulse is generated cos 2 cos 2 . . . cos 2 17 which contains N frequencies given by f f . . . f. In this representation the amplitude of each tone is Aand each tone begins at a common initial phase for maximum peak to average ratio which generates a maximum nonlinear response . Also the tones are centered at fand separated by f 

The active tones are again modulated by the on off pulse waveform s t . An example of a multitone pulse is shown in . A MATLAB function which generates this waveform is given in Appendix B.

A pulse whose carrier frequency begins at fand increases linearly to fover the time interval Tis given by cos 2 2 19 where k is the linear chirp rate and Ais the amplitude of the pulse envelope. An example of a linear FM chirp pulse is shown in . A Matlab function which generates this waveform is given in Appendix C. Stepped Frequency Pulse

An example of a stepped frequency chirp pulse is shown in . A Matlab function which generates this waveform is given in Appendix D.

An architecture having components common to both linear and nonlinear modes for transmitting and receiving radar waveforms is necessary to minimize the size weight and power of the combined radar system. A bench top architecture for an alternate preferred embodiment combined radar transceiver is given in . However the invention is not limited to the specific components of the bench top architecture.

In this alternate preferred embodiment which includes a hardware simulation of the radar environment the signal generator is both linear and nonlinear radar waveforms which may be for example a Tektronix AWG7052. The low pass filters which may for example be MiniCircuits NLP 1000 low pass filters are highly linear with a passband below 1 GHz and remove much of the transmitter Tx generated nonlinear harmonic distortion. The amplifier which may for example be a AR4W1000 amplifier boosts the power of the AWG signal to a level sufficient to excite nonlinear responses from electronic targets. The dual directional coupler which may for example be a HP 778D provides one port for sampling the forward transmit Tx waveform which may be monitored for example by a digital oscilloscope and another port for sampling the reverse receive Rx signal. The Simulated Radar Environment consists of 100 ft of SMA cable four 25 ft cables in series terminated by an SMA connectorized target A

Two receive chains are selected by a pair of switches A B which may for examples be Hittite HMC784MS8GE switches. Each switch A B may be powered by 5 V from the 6 V 5 A port on an Agilent E3631A supply and controlled by 5 V 0 V from the 25 V 1 A port. In the Linear Rx chain is selected and the signal is passed directly to the oscilloscope A through an SMA cable . Alternatively the Nonlinear Rx chain may be selected. Along the nonlinear receiver path the signal is filtered by four high pass filters A D which may be for example MiniCircuits VHF 1320 high pass filters having passbands above 1.32 GHz to remove the linear response from capture and processing and amplified by amplifiers A B which may for example be two MiniCircuits PSA 5453 and amplifier which may for example be a MiniCircuits PSA 545 . Each amplifier is mounted on an evaluation board and powered by 3 V from another E3631A supply.

As measured by an Agilent N9923A network analyzer and observed in the amplifier AR4W1000 provides more than a 40 dB gain to the transmit signal. For nonlinear harmonic responses each NLP 1000 filter attenuates Tx generated distortion at frequencies above 1500 MHz by more than 40 dB. is an illustration showing the signal at the transmitter amplifier and low pass filters

As seen in illustrating signals relating to the directional coupler and linear nonlinear receive chain the Tx and Rx coupling from the 778D is approximately 20 dB. Also the nonlinear Rx chain measured from one HMC784 RF common port to the other passes signals to the 8300A with a gain of approximately 40 dB whereas the linear Rx chain passes signals through with a loss under 3 dB.

The AWG7052 generator 8300A oscilloscope and E3631A supplies are controlled via the General Purpose Interface Bus GPIB . Communication is established using the Instrument Control Toolbox in MATLAB v7.0.0.19920 R14 . An example of a graphical user interface GUI for the combined radar system is illustrated in and was created using MATLAB s guide function. The script and functions that govern the operation of the GUI are given in appendices E through K.

Using the upper panel as shown in the four different waveforms presented in may be uploaded to the arbitrary wave generator for transmission to the target. Using the lower panel as shown in the signal from the target may be captured using the linear or nonlinear receive chain and processed accordingly. For the single tone pulse the user may choose the power of the RF pulse while it is active P the RF frequency f the time interval during which the pulse is active T and the pulse duty cycle D . The waveform name is the designation that appears on the AWG after the waveform is uploaded and is selected for waveform playback.

For the linear FM chirp pulse the user may choose the power of the chirp envelope P the frequency at which the chirp starts f the frequency at which the chirp ends f the time interval during which the frequency linearly changes from fto f T and the duty cycle of the waveform Dc .

For the multitone pulse the user may choose the number of tones N power per tone P the frequency at which the tones are centered f the time interval during which the pulse is active T and the pulse duty cycle D . The frequency separation between the tones f is automatically set to 1 T so that the shortest waveform necessary to achieve N f and Twith negligible frequency aliasing is uploaded to the AWG.

For the stepped frequency waveform the user may choose the power of the pulse envelope P the frequency at which the stepping starts f the frequency at which the stepping ends f the time interval during which the frequency steps from fto f T the step size f and the duty cycle of the waveform D .

As depicted in the sampled Tx signal is fed to channel 2 of the 8300A oscilloscope and the sampled Rx signal is fed through the linear nonlinear receive chain to channel 3. The user chooses the voltage scale per channel the total data collection time per trace and the number of integrations i.e. the number of data traces averaged before capture .

The user chooses the trigger level and source for signal capture with a consistent time reference. In the experimental setup Marker 1 from the arbitrary waveform generator is fed to the External trigger port on the oscilloscope .

The user chooses the receiver Rx mode and types a name for the native MATLAB MAT file that will store the time sampled Tx and Rx voltage vectors.

Upon pressing the Upload . . . button inside of one of the upper subpanels the appropriate waveform is generated and sent to the arbitrary waveform generator . A new figure panel not shown appears which plots the software generated waveform in frequency and time to confirm that the signal the user intended has been uploaded.

Upon pressing the Capture . . . button inside the lower subpanel the corresponding signal received from the target is recorded by the oscilloscope and processed in MATLAB. A second figure panel shown in section appears which plots the raw Tx and Rx data in time. A third figure panel also shown in the following Wireline Experiments section appears which plots the correlation of the Tx and Rx voltage samples.

Several experiments were conducted in order to demonstrate the performance of the alternate preferred embodiment combined radar transceiver using three different waveforms pulse linear chirp stepped frequency two Rx modes linear and nonlinear two hardware simulated linear targets open circuit matched load and one hardware simulated nonlinear target Family Radio Service FRS radio .

A factor of is used in equation 23 because the distance plotted is half the round trip distance from the transmitter i.e. from the coupler output port to the target i.e. to the end of the 100 ft coaxial line to the receiver i.e. back to the coupler output port .

Cross correlation is a basic form of target ranging. The peak of V V as a function of distance indicates the distance from the transmitter to the target.

In a relatively constant amplitude pulse is visible in the sampled Tx channel and a distorted pulse is visible in the sampled Rx channel. These waveforms are expected given the frequency dependent characteristic of the coupler in . In a sinc function is visible along with several sidelobes. This shape is expected from the cross correlation of two chirps. The peak of the sinc function is visible at a distance of d 101 ft. The calculated distance is very close to the length of the coaxial line and slightly higher because the calculation does not account for the length of the Rx chain .

It is not apparent from left side that the transceiver is detecting the nonlinear response from the target. In the right side of however the observed response is clearly nonlinear because the frequency of the received signal 1800 MHz is twice that of the transmitted signal 900 MHz .

Nonlinearity is also visible in the frequency domain when the Tx and Rx signals are captured with a spectrum analyzer. provides such captures for a stepped frequency waveform and the FRS radio. The signal output from the arbitrary waveform generator and filtered by a NLP 1000 is plotted above and the received spectrum is plotted below. For P all of the spectral content is centered at f 900 MHz and no spectral content exists near 2f 1800 MHz. For P all of the spectral content is centered at 2f 1800 MHz and no spectral content exists near f 900 MHz.

A sinc function is again visible centered at d 103 ft. This distance is longer than d 101 ft measured previously because the nonlinear Rx chain contains slightly more propagation delay through the filters and amplifiers than the linear Rx chain SMA cable pass through .

The nonlinear Rx chain was tested against a purely linear target in order to demonstrate that the transceiver does not indicate detection if the target is linear and the radar is listening for a nonlinear response. gives the result of this test which is performed with a chirp waveform.

From it is clear that the radar registers a detection at d 103 ft when the target is nonlinear and the Rx is expecting a nonlinear response. From right side open circuit target it is clear that the nonlinear Rx chain does not register a detection when the target is linear. illustrates the radar data results for a chirp transmission waveform nonlinear Rx mode starting frequency f 890 MHz ending frequency f 910 MHz P 0 dBm T 1 ms D 10 .

From the above it can be concluded that the alternate preferred embodiment combined radar transceiver enables basic target ranging in both linear and nonlinear harmonic receive modes. The transceiver was constructed using an arbitrary waveform generator as the signal source a high speed digitizing oscilloscope A as the signal capture device and commercial off the shelf COTS components for the radar front end amplification filtering and switching . A 100 ft length of SMA cable terminated in an open circuit simulated a linear radar target the same cable terminated in an SMA connectorized FRS radio simulated a nonlinear radar target. A MATLAB GUI was developed in order to control the transceiver remotely. The associated script and helper functions are provided in the appendices. Ranging to the target was demonstrated experimentally using RF pulses linear FM chirps and stepped frequency waveforms.

The preferred embodiment combines linear radar with nonlinear radar. Linear radar detects targets whose permittivity contrasts with that of the background media detection is best when the physical dimensions of the target are near to or greater than the wavelength of the incident radiation. Nonlinear radar detects targets containing nonlinear junctions regardless of physical size whose RF properties convert incident radiation at a set of probe frequencies to reflected radiation at a set of completely different frequencies. The key advantage of the combined linear and nonlinear radar is that it detects both of these target sets. For a given transmitted wavelength the combined radar detects linear targets whose physical size is near to or greater than as well as nonlinear targets that can be much smaller than .

State of the art linear radars are able to detect mines and bulk explosives objects in the path of a vehicle and personnel. The Synchronous Impulse Reconstruction SIRE radar constructed at ARL implements a wideband impulse transmit waveform multiple transmit and receive antennas and signal processing which creates synthetic aperture images. To date the SIRE radar has demonstrated standoff detection of metallic and dielectric surface targets whose volume is at least 200 in see for example M. Ressler L. Nguyen F. Koenig D. Wong and G. Smith The Army Research Laboratory ARL Synchronous Impulse Reconstruction SIRE forward looking radar in pp. 656105 1 12 April 2007 buried dielectric targets whose volume is at least 1 ft and people walking inside buildings.

State of the art nonlinear radars detect semiconductor junctions such as those found in RF electronics. The combination of linear wideband and nonlinear narrowband technology enables a single radar to detect a variety of threats targets that produce a linear response targets that produce a nonlinear response and targets that produce both. Some threats contain components whose permittivity contrasts substantially with that of the emplacement such is the case with many threats that are buried. Reception of a subsurface linear radar response from an area whose surface is otherwise undisturbed indicates the presence of a threat. Others threats contain metal contacts and semiconductor junctions whose nonlinear electromagnetic response contrasts with that of the emplacement such is the case with RF electronics. Reception of a nonlinear radar response from an area that does not otherwise contain electronics indicates the presence of another class of threat. The combined radar is intended to detect both types of threats collocated or not.

Often threats contain dielectric as well as electronic components hence they will respond to both linear and nonlinear excitation as depicted in . Either mode linear nonlinear of the preferred embodiments shown in will detect the threat. By switching between the two modes additional information about the threat is received and thus the probability that it is detected is improved. By combining linear and nonlinear radar capabilities several additional applications are evident including detection of landmines weapons and miscellaneous ordnance subsurface mapping of pipes electrical wires and other manmade structures vehicle tracking and navigation with or without nonlinear tags through the wall personnel tracking with nonlinear tags and performing counter surveillance.

The preferred embodiments of enable detection of targets whose permittivity contrasts substantially with that of the emplacement such is the case with many threats that are buried. Another class of threats contains metal contacts and semiconductor junctions whose nonlinear electromagnetic response contrasts with that of the emplacement such is the case with RF electronics. Linear radar is a detection technique well suited for targets whose permittivity contrasts with that of the background media and whose physical dimensions are near to or greater than the wavelength of the incident radiation. Nonlinear radar is another technique well suited for detecting targets containing electronics regardless of physical size whose RF properties convert incident radiation at a set of probe frequencies to reflected radiation at a different set of frequencies. The preferred embodiments combine linear and nonlinear radar so as to detect a set of targets greater than either radar can detect alone. The preferred embodiments enable reception of a subsurface linear radar response or nonlinear from an area whose surface is otherwise undisturbed so as to indicate the presence of a threat. By switching between the linear and nonlinear radar modes either type of threat is detected. For targets that contain both linear and nonlinear components switching between the two radar modes provides additional information and the probability of detection is improved.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention many be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

