---

title: System and method for a single request—single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection
abstract: Various embodiments of a system and method for a single request-single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection are described. Embodiments include a system that receives multiple single request messages, each of which include a respective nonce, timestamp, and digital signature. The system may create a record of previously received nonces that, at any given time, may include multiple message nonces received within a valid period of time prior to that given time. To validate a given single request message, the system verifies the digital signature of the message, determines that the timestamp of the message indicates a time within the valid period of time prior to the current time, and determines that the nonce of the message is not present within the record of previously received nonces. The system sends a single response message that includes the same nonce as the validated message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08959346&OS=08959346&RS=08959346
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08959346
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130130
---
This is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 431 598 filed on Apr. 28 2009 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention is directed to computer systems. More particularly it is directed to providing protection from mutual replay attacks in computing environments.

The Internet sometimes called simply the Net is a worldwide system of computer networks in which a client at any one computer may with permission obtain information from any other computer. The most widely used part of the Internet is the World Wide Web often abbreviated WWW which is commonly referred to as the web. The web may be defined as all the resources e.g. web pages and web sites and users on the Internet that use the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or variations thereof to access the resources. A web site is a related collection of web files that includes a beginning file called a home page. From the home page the user may navigate to other web pages on the web site. A web server program is a program that using the client server model and HTTP serves the files that form the web pages of a web site to the web users whose computers contain HTTP client programs e.g. web browsers that forward requests and display responses. A web server program may host one or more web sites.

The ubiquitous nature of the Internet and other electronic communication channels has led to a rise in electronic commerce and other electronic activities for which security is a concern. To breach security of such communication channels attackers and other unscrupulous individuals employ a variety of techniques aimed at weak points in communication protocols. One common type of attack includes the replay attack. In one example of replay attack an attacker might eavesdrop on messages communicated between a first entity and a second entity and leverage information gained through eavesdropping in order to pose as a legitimate party to the communication. For instance the attacker might eavesdrop on a message including authentication information e.g. a password sent by the first entity to the second entity as proof of identity. With knowledge of the information gained through eavesdropping the attacker may pose as the first entity by sending a message that includes the eavesdropped authentication information.

Various embodiments of a system and method for a single request single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection are described. Embodiments may include a system e.g. a server computer system configured to receive multiple single request messages each of which may include a respective nonce a timestamp based on a time at which that single request message was generated and a digital signature of that single request message. Such single request messages may each be sent by a respective client system.

The system may be further configured to create a record of previously received nonces which may be used for validating received messages . At any given time the record may include multiple message nonces received within a valid period of time prior to that given time. To validate a given single request message the system may be configured to verify the digital signature of the that message determine that the timestamp of that message indicates a time that is within the valid period of time prior to the current time and determine that the nonce of the that message is not present within the record of previously received nonces at the current time. In various cases this validation process may ensure that a single request message cannot be replayed by an attacker to compromise the security of the system.

In response to validating the given single request message the system may be configured to send a single response message that includes the same nonce of the validated message as well as information associated with the fulfillment of the given single request message.

In various embodiments the single response message may be sent to the system that sent the corresponding single request message e.g. a corresponding client computer system which may be referred to as the client. The client may perform a validation process on the single response message which may include determining that the nonce of the response message matches the nonce of the corresponding request message sent by the client. In various cases this validation process may ensure that a single response message cannot be replayed by an attacker to compromise the security of the system. In this way various embodiments may provide mutual replay attack prevention by protecting both server computer systems and client computer systems from replay attacks.

While the system and method for a single request single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the system and method for a single request single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit embodiments to the particular form disclosed. Rather the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the system and method for a single request single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection as defined by the appended claims. Any headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used herein the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to. In various portions of the description presented herein the terms validate verify validation verification validating and verifying may be used interchangeably.

Various embodiments of a system and method for a single request single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection are described. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed description which follow are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on binary digital signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and is generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations or similar signal processing leading to a desired result. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

Note that the description presented herein may include one or more references to a cryptographic hash function or simply hash function. In various embodiments the hash functions described herein may be any of various hash functions including but not limited to the Secure Hash Algorithm SHA e.g. SHA 1 SHA 0 SHA 224 SHA 256 SHA 384 SHA 512 and other SHA variations the RACE Integrity Primitives Evaluation Message Digest RIPEMD e.g. RIPEMD 128 RIPMED 160 RIPEMD 256 RIPEMD 320 and other RIPEMD variations the Message Digest algorithm MD e.g. MD 3 MD 4 MD 5 and other MD variations the Tiger and Tiger2 hash functions e.g. Tiger 128 Tiger 160 Tiger 192 Tiger2 128 Tiger2 160 Tiger2 192 and other Tiger variations the Very Efficient Substitution Transposition VEST e.g. VEST 4 VEST 8 VEST 16 VEST 32 and other VEST variations the WHIRLPOOL hash function some other hash function whether presently known or developed in the future and or some combination or variation of any of the aforesaid hash functions.

As illustrated client system may in various embodiments include an application and a request generation component . In some cases request generation component may be a component of application e.g. an integrated component plug in or application extension . In other cases request generation component may be a stand alone component e.g. a stand alone application that is configured to communicate with application and is separate from application . Application may represent any application configured to submit requests to other entities. In one example application may be an application that requires a content license such as a license to access content for a specified period of time. Such licenses may in some cases be part of a digital rights management DRM scheme. For instance application might represent an electronic book e book reader configured to submit requests for a license to access e.g. view print copy etc. an e book e.g. an e book downloaded from a content source . In another example application might be an application configured to play music subject to DRM e.g. a media player application . In that case application may prior to playing the music request an appropriate license by submitting a request to a server configured to provide licenses. In any of the aforesaid examples application may submit such requests via request generation component . For instance request generation component might provide an application programming interface API for computer executable logic that may be called by application in order to submit a request.

In various embodiments request generation component may be configured to submit and receive requests according to a single request single response protocol that provides mutual replay protection. In response to determining that a request is to be submitted e.g. a request for the licenses described above a request for permission to perform an action or some other request request generation component may generate a single request message that is associated with that single request. Single request message may include request data which may be data describing or identifying the request. For instance in one embodiments request data may identify content e.g. an e book music video or other media for which a license is requested. In another example request data may specify one or more actions for which application seeks permission to perform e.g. providing a user with access to one or more features of application . In some embodiments request data may include information about the client system and or application that is submitting the request. For instance request data may include a host address e.g. internet protocol address of client system or an identifier associated with the particular instance of application installed on client system . In some cases request data may include information for identifying or authenticating a user utilizing application . For instance such information may include a username or other identifier and or password for an individual seeking to view an e book or media file via application . In some embodiments request data may be optional. For example in some cases the illustrated system may be configured such that the messages are known by the participating systems to be associated with only one type of request thereby removing the need to specify such information in each message .

Request generation component may also be configured to generate single request message such that the message includes a nonce . In some cases nonce may represent a session identifier that may be used only once per session. As used herein the term session may refer to a single request single response session. One example of such a session includes only one request message e.g. single request message and one response message single response message . Nonce may in various embodiments be a nonce generated randomly or pseudo randomly. In some cases nonce may be a cryptographic nonce. One example of a cryptographic nonce includes a nonce generated via a cryptographic hash function. For instance request generation component may be configured to generate an identifier e.g. a random or pseudo random number and use that identifier as the input to a cryptographic hash function. In some cases the result of performing that cryptographic hash function may be nonce .

In some embodiments request generation component may be configured such that a given nonce is only used for one session. For instance in some cases the request generation component may be configured to store a list of previously used nonces. The request generation component may be configured to ensure e.g. via comparison of nonces that a candidate nonce to be included in a single request message is not present within such list of previously used nonces. In some cases the request generation component may purge the list of nonces that are older than a particular period of time such that the list does not grow indefinitely and such that nonces may be used more than once over longer periods of time. In other cases the request generation component may not maintain such a list. For instance in various embodiments the request generation component may instead rely on request processing component to ensure that a nonce has not been previously used at all or has not been previously used within a particular time period described in more detail below with respect to request processing component as well as the flowchart of .

Request generation component may be configured to generate single request message such that it includes a timestamp as illustrated. In various embodiments timestamp may indicate a time at which the single request message was generated. In some embodiments timestamp may indicate a time that is the summation of the time at which the single request message was generated and an offset value. Such time offset value may be used to compensate for differences between the respective time sources e.g. system clocks utilized by request generation component and request processing component . The manner in which some embodiments utilize such a time offset value is described in more detail below with respect to . In various embodiments request generation component may be configured to obtain a time value for timestamp from a variety of sources including but not limited to the system clock of client system a system clock of another device or an external time server.

In various embodiments request generation component may be configured to digitally sign single request message by appending a digital signature to single request message . In one example digital signature may be stored as metadata of single request message . To generate digital signature the signature generation component may be configured to perform a cryptographic hash function on single request message which includes request data nonce and timestamp as described above. The result of such operation may be a cryptographic hash of message . The request generation component may be configured to perform an asymmetric encryption function on that hash to generate a digital signature. In various embodiments performing an asymmetric encryption function the hash of message may include encrypting the hash with a private key e.g. a secret key associated with the request generation component. The result of this encryption process may include digital signature which may be validated with a public key that forms a private key public key pair with the aforesaid private key. In various embodiments such a public key may be distributed to other systems e.g. server system within a digital certificate such as an X.509 certificate in Public Key Infrastructure PKI systems. As demonstrated by the illustrated embodiment the signature generation component may be configured to attach or append the generated digital signature to single request message e.g. by attaching the digital signature as metadata . As illustrated in the request generation component may be configured to provide the signed data e.g. single request message including digital signature to server system . For instance such communication may be performed over one or more networks such as network described below with respect to . In other embodiments the request generation component may be configured to provide the signed data to one or more intermediary systems e.g. computer systems data stores etc. . In such embodiments server system may be configured to receive the signed single request message from such intermediary systems.

Request processing component of server system may be configured to validate and process one or more incoming request messages such as single request message . In some embodiments request processing component may validate a received request message and share the processing of the associated request e.g. the request specified by request data with one or more applications such as application . For instance request data might indicate that a particular license e.g. a license for content such as e books or other media is requested. In this example request processing component may determine whether the received message is valid and if valid rely on application to handle the retrieval of the appropriate license. Note that this is just one example of how request processing component and application may be configured. In other embodiments request processing component may be mostly or fully responsible for both the validation and processing of received requests.

As described above request processing component may be configured to determine whether a received single request message is valid. To determine whether single request message is valid request processing component may be configured to determine whether the digital signature of the message is valid. The process for verifying digital signature may include verifying the digital signature against a public key for client system or the public key of an entity controlling client system . For instance as described above the public keys associated with client system may be distributed to server system within a certificate e.g. an X.509 certificate in PKI . The request processing component may begin this portion of the process of verifying the digital signature by parsing the received message into digital signature and single request message . In some cases message and digital signature may already be separate and parsing may not be necessary. The request processing component may perform a hash function e.g. SHA 1 on single request message to generate a hash result. In various embodiments the request processing component may utilize the same hash function as utilized by the request generation component as described above. The request processing component may also be configured to perform an asymmetrical decryption function on digital signature by decrypting the digital signature with the public key described above. In various embodiments public key may be the public key that corresponds to the private key used to generate the digital signature e.g. the private key and public key may be generated as a key pair by a key derivation function . In various embodiments the asymmetric decryption function performed by the request processing component may correspond to and or be the same as the asymmetric encryption function performed by the request generation component as described above. The request processing component may be configured to compare hash of single request message with the result of the asymmetric decryption function to determine whether the hash and the decryption result are equivalent to each other e.g. determine whether they are bit wise equivalents . If they are equivalent request processing component may determine that the digital signature is valid and may proceed with validating the single request message. If they are not equivalent request processing component may determine that the digital signature is not valid and may discard the single request message.

In addition to determining whether digital signature is valid the request processing component may also be configured to determine whether the timestamp of the single request message indicates a time within a valid period of time from the current time. In one example a valid time period might include a range of time extending from particular time before the current time up to the current time e.g. the last minutes or some other time window . Note that the valid period of time may be configurable in various embodiments e.g. configurable by a system administrator . By ensuring that the timestamp of the single request message indicates a time that falls within the valid period of time the request processing component may in some cases prevent replay attacks where an attacker tries to submit a replayed message at some time in the future. Single request messages having timestamps that indicate a time that falls outside of the valid period of time may be referred to herein as expired single request messages.

In addition to determining that the single request message has not expired request processing component may be configured to determine that nonce of the message is not present within the record of received nonces . Record of received nonces may be a record managed by request processing component . In various embodiments each time a single request message is received request processing component may store the nonce of that request with the record of received nonces . Further note that the request processing component may be configured to create the record of received nonces such that the record only includes nonces for messages received during the valid period of time with respect to the current time e.g. a valid period of time prior to the current time . As described above this period of time may be a rolling window of time e.g. 5 minutes or some other period of time . By creating the record of received nonces in this manner request processing component may prevent the record of received nonces from growing indefinitely and thus conserve storage requirements for the record of received nonces. As part of the validation process for the single request message request processing component may be configured to ensure that the nonce of the received message is not already present within the record of received nonces . If the nonce is determined to already be present within the record of nonces the request processing component may not validate the single request message. By operating in this manner request processing component may ensure that replayed messages are determined to be invalid e.g. since replayed messages may include replayed nonces .

Note that even in embodiments where the record of received nonces only includes nonces received within a valid period of time with respect to the current time the validation process performed by the request processing component may not present a security concern. For instance since the request processing component may be configured to invalidate messages that are expired e.g. messages having a timestamp that indicates a time at falling outside of the valid time window with respect to the current time there may in various embodiments be no need for the request processing component to maintain records of nonces received prior to the valid period of time.

If the request processing component determines that digital signature is valid e.g. valid based on the appropriate public key the timestamp indicates that the time at which the single request message was generated falls within the valid period of time e.g. a valid window of time with respect to the current time and that nonce is not present with the record of received nonces the request processing component may determine that the single request message is a valid single request message. In various embodiments if any of such conditions are not met request processing component may determine that the single request message is invalid and refrain from processing the single request message. One particular example of this is illustrated with respect to which is described in more detail further below.

In response to determining that the single request message is valid request processing component may process the single request message in order to fulfill the associated request. To process single request message the request processing component may be configured to store the nonce within the record of received nonces . In this way request processing component may prevent a replay attack that submits a message including the same nonce at a time falling within the valid time window.

In some cases as part of fulfilling the request associated with the message the request processing component may request or instruct application to perform one or more actions. For instance as described above request data may indicate that a license for content is requested. In this example request processing component may request application or some other logic to retrieve an appropriate license file for the content. In other cases request processing component may itself retrieve an appropriate license.

In various embodiments request processing component may be configured to generate single response message in response to determining that the single request message is valid. Request processing component may generate single response message such that the single response message include response data . Response data may include information associated with fulfillment of the request associated with the single request message. For instance if the request were a request for a content license response data may include such license. In another example if the request were a request for permission to perform an action response data may indicate that permission has been granted. In another example if the request were a request for a particular portion of data e.g. one or more files or other portions of data the response data may include such particular portion of data. In other cases response data may include other types of data such as an acknowledgement indication.

To prevent client side replay attacks the request processing component includes nonce e.g. the same nonce that was included within the single request message . On the client side request generation component may be configured to verify that only one response message including nonce is considered valid. For instance since request generation component has knowledge of nonce from the generation of single request message the single request message may compare the nonces of incoming response to ensure that only one message including nonce is considered valid. In this way if an attacker were to attempt a replay attack on the client e.g. with a message including nonce the client would detect the replay attack based on the replayed nonce and invalidate the replayed response message.

In some embodiments the record of received nonces e.g. record of received nonces may be stored on one or more systems separate from server system . Server system may be configured to access the record of received nonces from such systems. In one example a cluster of server systems including server systems configured in a manner similar to server system may communicate with one or more clients. For instance such an embodiment is described below with respect to . In this example the server systems may access a centralized record of received nonces from one or more centralized systems such as a database or other data store. In other embodiments one or more other systems e.g. a load balancer such as load balancer described below may be configured to route all requests from a particular client system which may be identified by the signature of requests to a particular server system. In this example no centralized data store of received nonces may be necessary.

As described above various aspects of the system and method for a single request single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection may include generating e.g. on the client side and evaluating e.g. on the server side the timestamp of a single request message. While request generation component and request processing component may be configured to correctly operate with synchronized or near synchronized time sources the system and method for a single request single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection may be configured such that synchronization of time sources is not required.

Referring to client system may be configured to send a single request message to server system as described above with respect to . Note that similarly labeled and numbered components of single request message may be generated in a manner similar to or the same as that described above with respect to . For instance single request message request data nonce timestamp and digital signature may each be generated in a manner similar to the generation of single request message request data nonce timestamp and digital signature respectively. In the illustrated embodiment the time source utilized by request processing component e.g. an internal component such as a system clock or an external component such as a time server may be out of sync with respect to the time source utilized by request generation component . Similar to the manner described above with respect to request processing component may evaluate the single request message based on the timestamp generated by request generation component . For instance the request processing component may evaluate the timestamp to determine whether the request has expired e.g. determine whether the timestamp indicates a time older than the valid period of time described above . In the illustrated embodiment if the request processing component determines that timestamp indicates a time that falls outside of the valid period of time the single request message may either be expired or the respective time sources utilized by the request generation component and the request processing component may be out of sync by a quantity of time greater than the valid period of time.

To inform the client of time sources that are out of sync request processing component may send a single error message to the client system that sent the corresponding request message. Request processing component may generate single error message such that the message includes error information which may specify the type of error e.g. time synchronization error that was detected or some other information associated with the error e.g. an error code that identifies the error . Request processing component may also generate single error message such that the message includes the current server time which may specify the current time of the time source utilized by request processing component and or the time at which the server system received the associated single request message. Additionally request processing component may generate single error message such that the message includes nonce e.g. the same nonce included within single request message which may be utilized by the client system to validate the error message in a manner similar to that described above with respect to . The request processing component may also digitally sign single error message by generating a digital signature and appending the digital signature to the message. The generation of digital signature may be similar to the generation of digital signature described above e.g. request processing component may generate the digital signature with a private key .

To address out of sync time sources request generation component may analyze single error message to determine a time offset value to add to time values obtained from its associated time source in order to generate timestamps for subsequent single request messages. The request generation component may determine the time offset value based on timestamp sent in message and the current server time received in the single error message . For example the request generation component may determine the time offset value as being the result of subtracting the time value indicated by timestamp from current server time . For each subsequent single request message sent between client system and server system request generation component may add the time offset value to the current time as determined from its associated time source. For each subsequent message sent from client system to server system the request generation component may generate the timestamp of subsequent single request messages as being the result of that summation in various embodiments. For instance subsequent single requests may be generated in a manner similar to that described above with respect to by modifying timestamp by adding the aforesaid time offset value to the current time indicated by the timestamp.

By adding the time offset value to timestamps such as timestamp various embodiments may prevent request processing system from determining that legitimate single request messages are expired due to unsynchronized time sources. Note that the data flow illustrated in may conform to the single request single response protocol since the single request message and single error message form a single session. Single request messages sent after the single error message e.g. after request generation component implements the use of the time offset value may each be separate sessions with distinct nonces.

Various embodiments of the system and method for a single request single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection may include various methods. One example of such a method is illustrated in by the flowchart of . In various embodiments various portions of the method may be performed by client and server computer systems such as client system and server system . As illustrated by block the method may include a client system or simply client e.g. client system generating a single request message and sending the single request message to a server system or simply server e.g. server system . In various embodiments the composition of the single request message may be similar to that of single request message described above. For instance the method may include generating the single request message such that the request message includes request data e.g. request data . Request data may include data describing or identifying the request. For instance the method may include generating the request data such that it includes data identifying content for which a license is requested data specifying one or more actions for which a client application seeks permission to perform data including information about the client system and or a client application that is submitting the request e.g. host addresses or application identifier and or data including information for identifying or authenticating a user utilizing a client application on the client e.g. a username and or password .

The method may also include the client generating the single request message such that the request message includes a nonce such as nonce described above. In some embodiments the method may include the client generating the nonce such that the nonce represents a session identifier that may be used only once per session. In various embodiments the method may include the client generating the nonce in a random or pseudo random fashion. In some cases the nonce generated may be a cryptographic nonce e.g. a nonce generated with a cryptographic hash function .

The method may also include generating the single request message such that it includes a timestamp e.g. timestamp described above . In various embodiments the method may include the client generating the single request message such that the timestamp indicates a time at which the single request message was generated.

In various embodiments the method may include the client digitally signing the request before sending it to the server computer system or simply server e.g. server system . For instance the method may include the client digitally signing the single request message by appending a digital signature to the single request message e.g. as metadata . In one example the method may include the client digitally signing the single request message in a manner similar to that described above with respect to the generation of digital signature e.g. hashing the single request message and asymmetrically encrypting the hash value with the client s private key to generate the digital signature .

As illustrated by block the method may include the server receiving the single request message. For instance the single request message may be sent by the client over one or more data networks e.g. the Internet or other electronic communication networks receiving the single request message may include the server receiving the single request message via such data networks.

As illustrated by block the method may include the server determining whether the digital signature of the single request message is valid. For example the server may verify the digital signature against a public key for the client system. For instance in a manner similar to that described above for verifying digital signature the method may include generating a hash of the single request message decrypting the digital signature of the single request message with the client s public key and determining that the digital signature is valid if the hash and the decryption result are equivalent or determining that the digital signature is invalid if the hash and the decryption result are not equivalent. If it is determined that the digital signature is invalid the method may include the server discarding the single request message or sending an appropriate error message to the client as illustrated by block .

As illustrated by block if the digital signature is valid the method may include the server determining whether the timestamp of the single request message indicates a time within a valid period of time from the current time. In one example a valid time period might include a range of time extending from particular time before the current time up to the current time e.g. the last 5 minutes or some other time window . By ensuring that the timestamp of the single request message indicates a time that falls within the valid period of time the method may in some cases prevent replay attacks where an attacker tries to submit a replayed message at some time in the future. If the timestamp does not fall within the valid period of time the method may proceed to block which is described in more detail further below.

As illustrated by block if the timestamp indicates a time that falls within the valid period of time the method may include the server determining whether the nonce of the single request message is present within a record of previously received nonces. One example of such a record includes the record of previously received nonces which is described in more detail above. If the nonce is determined to already be present within the record of previously received nonces the server may discard the single request message or send an appropriate error message to the client as illustrated by bock . By operating in this manner the method may ensure that replayed messages are determined to be invalid e.g. since replayed messages may include replayed nonces .

As illustrated by block if it is determined that the nonce from the single request message is not present with the record of received previously received nonces the method may include the server determining that the single request message is a valid single request message and storing the nonce from the single request message within the record of received nonces. In this way the method may prevent a replay attack that submits a message including the same nonce at a time falling within the valid time window.

As illustrated by block the method may further include the server generating a single response message e.g. in response to determining that the single request message is valid . One example of such a response message is described above with respect to single response message . For instance the method may include the server generating the single response message such that the single response message includes response data e.g. response data . Response data may include information associated with fulfillment of the request associated with the single request message such as a content license information indicating permission to perform an action and or a particular portion of requested data.

As illustrated by block the method may include the client validating the single response message. For instance the method may include the client verifying that only one response message including the nonce of the original request is considered valid. For example since the client may have knowledge of the original nonce from the generation of the single request message described with respect to block the method may include the client comparing the nonce of the incoming request response to ensure that only one message including original nonce is considered valid. In this way if an attacker were to attempt a replay attack on the client the illustrated method would include the client detecting the replay attack based on the replayed nonce and invalidating the replayed response message.

As described above with respect to block the method may in some cases include determining that the timestamp of the single request message does not fall within the valid period of time. In some cases this characteristic of a single request message may be caused by unsynchronized time sources of the client and server such as described above with respect to . In these cases as illustrated by block the method may include the server sending to the client a single error message that includes the server s current time. For instance the method may include the server obtaining its current time from a system clock and embedding that time in the single error message sent to the client. As illustrated by block the method may include the client determining a time offset value to address out of sync time sources. For example the method may include the client determining the time offset value based on the timestamp of the single request message originally sent by the client and the current server time from the error message. For instance the method may include determining the time offset value as being the result of subtracting the time value indicated by the timestamp of the single request message originally sent by the client from the current server time from the error message. As illustrated by block the method may include the client sending a new single request message that includes a corrected timestamp e.g. the sum of the current time as obtained from a time source and the determined time offset value and a newly generated nonce. By adding the time offset value to timestamps various embodiments of the method may prevent the receiving server from determining that legitimate single request messages are expired due to unsynchronized time sources. Note that the newly generated single request message may be sent to the server as part of a new session.

In some embodiments the system may include a load balancer configured to operate with the goal of evenly or nearly evenly distributing requests from clients to servers . Note that in other embodiments a load balancer is optional . Since the clients and servers are configured to operate according to a single request single response protocol load balancer may in many embodiments be relieved of maintaining transaction states. For instance in conventional systems that employ challenge response protocols load balancers may be required to maintain state information for transactions in order to route multiple transaction messages from a particular client to the same server that is tasked with consuming such messages. In various embodiments load balancer may not maintain such state information. Instead since in various embodiments a given session includes only one communication from a client to a server e.g. a single request message load balancer is not required to maintain state information e.g. as is the case with other systems that employ challenge response protocols .

Various embodiments of a system and method for a single request single response protocol with mutual replay attack protection as described herein may be executed on one or more computer systems which may interact with various other devices. One such computer system is computer system illustrated by which may in various embodiments implement any of the elements illustrated in e.g. client system server system etc. . Computer system may be capable of implementing a request generation component such as request generation component or a request processing component such as request processing component either of which may be stored in memory as processor executable program instructions . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface and one or more input output devices such as cursor control device keyboard and display s . In some embodiments it is contemplated that embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems or multiple nodes making up computer system may be configured to host different portions or instances of various embodiments. For example in one embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more nodes of computer system that are distinct from those nodes implementing other elements.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x56 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments data may store one or more of single request messages single response messages single error messages and a record of received nonces such as those described above. In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In various embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces such as input output devices . In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network e.g. network such as other computer systems or between nodes of computer system . In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or accessing data by one or more computer systems . Multiple input output devices may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions including computers network devices Internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers etc. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage devices while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include a storage medium or memory medium such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. In some embodiments a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The methods described herein may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of methods may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. Realizations in accordance with the present invention have been described in the context of particular embodiments. These embodiments are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of the invention as defined in the claims that follow.

