---

title: Ultrafast laser apparatus
abstract: A laser apparatus includes a fiber oscillator. In another aspect, an Ytterbium (Yb) doped fiber is employed. Another aspect provides an unamplified laser pulse emitted from an Yb fiber oscillator having a repetition rate less than 5 MHz and a pulse energy greater than 100 nJ. In still an additional aspect, a flexible Yb fiber has a length greater than 1 m which is capable of being looped with an outside loop diameter less than 150 mm. Another aspect provides for a fiber oscillator with passive optical fiber lengths of at least 10 meters, and more preferably more than 100 meters while having repetition rates less than 4 MHz.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09048632&OS=09048632&RS=09048632
owner: BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
number: 09048632
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This invention is made with government support under Grant No. NSF 1014538 awarded by the United States National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention generally relates to lasers and more particularly to a laser apparatus including a fiber oscillator.

An ultrafast fiber amplifier is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 113 327 entitled High Power Fiber Chirped Pulse Amplification System Utilizing Telecom Type Components which issued to Gu et al. on Sep. 26 2006 and is incorporated by reference herein. This system follows a traditional approach towards generating high pulse energies from fiber lasers. The guidelines being outlined in the publication of A. Galvanauskas and M. Fermann Hybrid Diode Laser Fiber Amplifier Source of High Energy Ultrashort Pulses Vol. 19 No. 14 1043 1994 state that high peak intensities inevitably lead to strong nonlinear effects and pulse breakup. The publication further states that the only way to avoid this problem is to maintain sufficiently low peak powers in the amplifier through the use of stretched or chirped pulses. Fiber laser design has not deviated from those guidelines avoiding nonlinear optical effects and pulse break up through the introduction of pulse stretching optics before power amplification stages. While staying within these guidelines which require complexity in the form of multiple amplification stages commercial amplified fiber laser sources now reach tens and even hundreds of micro Joules per pulse. These sources therefore use multiple stages of amplification to separate the gain into stages to make it more manageable chirped pulse amplification stretching the pulse by five to six orders of magnitude and the use of large mode area fiber in order to minimize the peak intensity within the fiber. Minimizing peak intensity is used in order to minimize nonlinear optical processes which have been considered detrimental by causing self phase modulation intensity induced dispersion and pulse break up.

The publication M. Horowitz et al. Noiselike Pulses with a Broadband Spectrum Generated from an Erbium Doped Fiber Laser 22 799 Jun. 1 1997 teaches away from erbium doped fiber lasers. The first page of this publication states that the power of such sources is limited and a pulsed erbium doped fiber laser . . . generates a train of high intensity broadband noiselike pulses. Generally optical noise is undesirable and to be avoided. The goal of Horowitz is to produce a short coherence length light source and not an efficient laser source. Furthermore Horowitz comments in the last column Our laser cannot support short pulses because of the strong positive dispersion and the significant birefringence which introduces significant PDD polarization dependent delay .

The first page of the publication B. Ortac et al. 200 nJ Pulse Energy Femtosecond Yb Doped Dispersion Compensation Free Fiber Oscillator Vol. 6873 2008 teaches the difficulties with power scaling mode locked fiber lasers m ainly due to the tight confinement of the light over considerably long lengths nonlinear effects mainly Kerr nonlinearity avoid self consistent pulse evolution inside a fiber laser resonator and hinder the pursuit of higher pulse energies from mode locked fiber lasers. Besides the necessary balance between dispersion and nonlinearity which can be supported by spectral filtering the overdriving of the effective saturable absorber can arise as a further energy scaling restriction. This conventional oscillator uses a 51 cm long large mode area fiber with an outer width of 1.4 mm which is essentially inflexible.

The publication of V. L. Kalashnikov and A. Apolonski Chirped Pulse Oscillators A Unified Standpoint Vol. 79 043821 2009 second column describes the theory of high power oscillators and indicates that energy scaling requires a large negative net group delay dispersion the soliton obtained has a large width and . . . it is not compressible linearly because the peak power Phas to be kept lower than the threshold value Pin order to avoid soliton destabilization. Thus one can estimate the maximum attainable energy as E 2PT where T is the soliton width. What Kalashnikov and Apolonski have failed to recognize is that high intensity pulse trains that are desirable for a number of commercial applications can be obtained from lasers that do not avoid soliton destabilization. In other words this publication followed the conventional literature in fiber laser design and teaches away from exploring regimes outside single soliton stability. The use of an all normal dispersion femtosecond fiber laser design introduced by A. Chong et al. All Normal Dispersion Femtosecond Fiber Laser Vol. 14 No. 21 10095 2006 discusses the need to keep intracavity dispersion in the range of 0.04 to 0.10 psin order to obtain femtosecond pulses from a fiber oscillator.

In accordance with the present invention a laser apparatus includes a fiber oscillator. In another aspect an Ytterbium Yb doped fiber is employed. Another aspect provides an unamplified laser pulse emitted from an Yb fiber oscillator having a repetition rate less than 10 MHz and a pulse energy greater than 100 nJ. In still an additional aspect the entire laser includes a flexible fiber with at least one section greater than 10 m and more preferably greater than 100 m which is capable of being looped with an outside loop diameter less than 150 mm and more preferably less than 125 mm. Another aspect provides for a fiber oscillator with passive optical fiber lengths of at least 10 m and more preferably more than 100 m while having repetition rates less than 10 MHz. A further aspect employs an oscillator design that contains extremely high positive dispersion greater than 1 ps and or an oscillator that exceeds the threshold of soliton stability by design. Yet a different aspect uses a fiber oscillator to produce discrete femtosecond sub pulses clustered together in a time period less than 200 fs without amplification and or pulse shaping. A method of using an ultrafast laser apparatus is also provided.

The laser apparatus of the present invention is advantageous over traditional devices. For example greater laser pulse energy can be emitted with lower repetition rates in compact portable units and at significantly lower costs than multi stage amplified systems. The flexible nature of the flexible gain and passive fibers used allows for a very long fiber to be tightly wound yet providing a high energy pulse output without an additional expensive and heavy amplifier thereby fitting within the portable unit. The tightly wound fiber is also advantageous when compared to relatively inflexible large mode area fibers by not exhibiting optical degradation or distortion and resulting in a more compact unit. The slowness and low repetition rate concerns with traditional Q switches are also avoided since no Q switch is needed or desired with the present laser apparatus. The present laser apparatus additionally has discrete sub pulses clustered together within a very short time period with each sub pulse having an ultrafast such as less than 100 femtosecond duration yet the clustered sub pulses are insensitive to dispersion while increasing the energy delivered by the laser to the target without the need for amplification. An oscillator that results in high energy 0.1 1 uJ ultrafast pulses at 0.5 10 MHz is ideally suited for material processing ablation and spectroscopy. Such ablation includes dental cornea and cataract surgery. Furthermore the present laser apparatus is ideally suited for Laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy LIBS selected Raman excitation and endoscopy. Additional advantages and features of the present laser apparatus and method will become apparent from the following description and claims as well as the appended drawings.

An ultrafast laser apparatus is shown in . Apparatus includes a fiber laser oscillator used with a Laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy LIBS system . A laboratory setup of this LIBS apparatus is illustrated wherein a laser beam pulse or output is focused to form a plasma plume which atomizes a sample or specimen through surface ablation. Atomic emission lines of the specimen are then detected.

A 976 nm diode pump laser emits an initial laser beam through a fiber combiner . An Yb doped single mode gain fiber and a passive fiber are connected on either side of fiber combiner . Collimator is connected to gain fiber via a 0.35 m passive single mode fiber . A half wave plate quarter wave plate and polarized beam splitter are placed between collimator and a laser pulse output . On the other side another half wave plate and an isolator are located between a collimator and polarized beam splitter . The collimated laser beam enters passive single mode fiber and connects with the fiber combiner .

Passive fiber is at least 10 m long more preferably at least 100 m or even 300 m long. Yb doped gain fiber is at least 1 m long. However optical fibers and are advantageously flexible to allow them to be coiled or looped multiple times with an outside diameter of less than 125 mm without optical degradation. Referring to gain fiber and passive fiber and have a glass core and an outer concentric sheath which are flexible enough to compactly coil the very long fiber . A suitable Yb doped double clad gain fiber is model DCF YB 10 128P from CorActive High Tech Inc. of Quebec City Canada. This fiber advantageously allows for high pump absorption and high photodarkening resistance at high power. The present design is greater than the threshold peak intensity for soliton stability and uses much greater than 0.1 pspositive group velocity dispersion greater than 1 and even up to 4 ps.

One or both single mode fibers and have a length of approximately 100 m or even 200 m or greater and are flexibly coiled. Single mode fibers and are passive such that they guide the light from gain fiber . It is noteworthy that this combination of very long fibers greatly reduces the cavity repetition rate to 2 MHz for 100 m or 1 MHz for 200 m which is advantageously an order of magnitude lower repetition rate than traditional fiber laser oscillator systems.

The expected oscillator performance is shown in . illustrates an expected output spectrum with average power of 640 mW at a repetition rate of 2 MHz. illustrates an expected pulse train of laser output on the span of 5 s. Moreover an expected a non collinear AC trace from 0 ps to 180 ps is shown in with the insert illustrating the same expected AC trace on a small range from 1 ps to 1 ps.

By adjusting the waveplates and pump power different mode locking states can be achieved due to the NPE mechanism. As viewed in with a 100 m long single mode fiber the repetition rate is 2 MHz and the highest output power 640 mW of stable mode locking is achieved at 4.5 W pump power resulting in 320 nJ of pulse energy. Lengthening fiber 29 to 200 m should cause the repetition rate to be reduced to 1 MHz and should cause the highest pump power for stable mode locking to be 3 W. The corresponding output pulses have average power of 450 mW and 450 nJ pulse energy. In both cases 1 MHz and 2 MHz the pulse bursts occur as single pulses a behavior that is very different than when the laser is pumped with higher power and multi pulsing occurs preventing the definition of a repetition rate. The expected averaged laser spectrum is broad and smooth as shown in . As seen in the 2 MHz pulse train should be stable with peak to peak fluctuations on the order of 1 . The mode locking regime is robust and is also self starting.

For output pulses with 640 mW average power at 2 MHz an expected non collinear AC result is shown in only half being shown . The averaged AC trace has a FWHM 100 fs pulse in the center and a broad picosecond pedestal. The base line drops to below 0.1 at 180 ps. Not considering the center pulse the FWHM of the AC trace is expected to be around 170 ps corresponding to 121 ps FWHM pulse duration.

The formation of these pulse trains is due to peak power clamping in normal dispersion cavities using nonlinear polarization NPE mode locking. Each output pulse should contain a large number of 

Given that each pulse consists of a train of sub pulses the phase dependence of the output pulses is different than that of conventional femtosecond lasers. It is believed that the integrated SHG signal can increase about five times by applying negative second order dispersion 60 000 fs2 to the output pulses using a pulse shaper. The ratio between the peak of the spike at the center of the AC and the pedestal within a picosecond can be increased by two to three times. However compared to normal femtosecond pulses the sensitivity of this pulse train to dispersion is more than three orders of magnitude smaller than a comparable single pulse laser. This implies that these pulses can be delivered by an optical fiber with minimal pulse broadening. The high energy of the 

As shown in the output beam of the cavity is collimated with telescope lenses and before being directed to the LIBS detection unit without compression. A objective NA 0.4 is used to focus the pulse output onto a sample which is mounted on a spinning wheel having a rotational frequency of 133 Hz to provide a fresh spot for ablation. The scattered LIBS signal is directly collected by placing a light collection fiber next to the ablation spot illustrated as side collection and recorded by a compact spectrometer such as one employing 178 nm 876 nm which has Model No. USB4000 from Ocean Optics.

A LIBS spectra is directly recorded without using a gated spectrometer. The atomic emission peaks are much brighter than the broad plasma continuum emission. The low continuum emission also indicates little thermal emission and helps limit the heat affected zone in material processing and micromachining. The simple detection system requirements further reduce the complexity and cost of the LIBS system. The fast repetition rate at about 1 2 MHz also enhances the accumulation of LIBS signals.

To further evaluate this system the dependence of the LIBS signal on pulse fluence is also considered. The laser intensity and the corresponding LIBS signal monitored simultaneously using two spectrometers . The LIBS signal is collected in a backward direction via a fiber and lens to fully eliminate the scattered excitation light by a dichroic mirror . The LIBS signal goes back through the objective and is reflected by dichroic mirror having a long pass 900 nm . After an additional filter the LIBS signal is focused using lens and collected by compact spectrometer .

The LIBS signal is accompanied by a spectrally broad continuous plasma emission. With nanosecond pulses this continuum can be very strong and overwhelms the atomic emission lines. Since atomic emission lines decay more slowly than the continuum signal nanosecond LIBS systems typically employ expensive time gated detectors to isolate the atomic emissions. 

Ablation should first occur once the pulse is of sufficient energy that the peak fluence rises above the threshold in a small region in the center of the beam. As the pulse energy further increases both the amount of ablation and the area ablated increase. The LIBS signal intensity increases almost linearly with total pulse fluence once the pulse energy is high enough that the majority of the focal spot contributes to the ablation. It is also noted that the strength of the LIBS signal is linearly proportional to repetition rate. The present apparatus is advantageously useful for ultrafast ablation of materials for dental and eye surgery cutting tissue of a patient in a surgical unit including a doctor or robotic held laser beam emitting tool endoscopy dicing of semiconductor chip scribing glass and other micromachining activities. A very fast repetition rate 1 MHz with a high energy per pulse 0.1 10 micro Joule and ultrafast sub picosecond pulses are best. Multiple such ultrafast pulses within one picosecond perform better than a single pulse.

A manually portable and compact unit for the present ultrafast laser apparatus is illustrated in which includes a long fiber oscillator . This oscillator is very similar to that of the prior laboratory version however this is an all fiber construction without free space components for the oscillator. The present embodiment uses a pump diode laser a fiber combiner a gain fiber passive single mode fibers and and an isolator similar to that of the embodiment. Also a pair of fiber polarization controllers and are employed adjacent an output coupler of oscillator . An emitted output pulse is sent from output coupler to a micromachining unit and endoscope fiber unit or a LIBS spectrometer unit via a detachable output fiber . An exemplary micromachining unit is disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009 0188901 entitled Laser Material Processing System which published to Dantus on Jul. 30 2009 and is incorporated by reference herein. The flexible coiling of gain 121 and long passive fibers and optionally with at least passive fiber being about 100 m long having a loop outside diameter of about 150 mm and a loop width of about 13 mm allow oscillator including pump laser to completely fit within a portable housing . Housing is preferably smaller than 1 10 m for example 30 cm 30 cm 30 cm at dimensions a b and c and more preferably has outer dimensions less than 1 100 m for example 10 cm 10 cm 10 cm housing may have a generally cubic or rectangular cuboid shape. This compactness is ideally suited for use on a spacecraft wheeled robotic device and for manual transport within a person s backpack or hand held unit.

It is noteworthy that an amplifier is not required with the present ultrafast laser apparatus although it can optionally be used for some specialized instances such as for pulse train amplification. Nevertheless the Yb doped optical fiber preferably emits a laser output pulse having a duration less than 1 ns an unamplified energy greater than 100 nJ and more preferably greater than 300 nJ without amplification or a Q switch and has an oscillator repetition rate less than 10 MHz. The present Yb fiber laser advantageously achieves improved quantum efficiency over conventional Er fiber lasers. For example both Yb and Er gain fibers can be pumped by a 976 nm diode pump laser. The Er emission will be 1500 nm but the Yb emission is 1030 nm which is beneficially much closer to the pump wavelength of 976 nm. Therefore the Yb fiber of the present laser system is significantly more efficient which leads to a greater energy output for less cost and component complexity. This is well suited for an ultrafast laser system emitting laser beam pulses each having a duration 

The present laser apparatus is ideally suited for producing trains or discrete sub pulse clusters within a time period less than 200 femtoseconds and more preferably less than 100 femtoseconds for material ablation LIBS and selective Raman scattering. Neither active pulse shaping nor amplification is needed to obtain and use this train of sub pulse clusters in the present apparatus thereby significantly reducing component costs and complexity. Simulations of such sub pulse clusters can be observed in . Output pulse replication is performed with a Michelson interferometer more preferably with birrefringent optics or much more preferably with a gap in the gain fiber. At least two pulses are created from a single pulse and because they have some phase distortion the phase requirement for selective Raman excitation will be satisfied. Selective excitation requires minimum correlation functions that repeat every delta Raman shift. Delaying a pulse replica is equivalent to displacing its phase in the frequency domain. An external device can be used to create the pulse replica or it can be done intracavity through vibrational nodes selective excitation requiring a minimum correlation function 5 The pulse replica corresponds to a translated phase. Since the phase distortions are non linear e.g. quadratic cubic quartic it ensures that greater selectively will be achieved.

While various aspects of the present invention have been disclosed it should be appreciated that other variations are possible. For example additional or fewer optical components such as elimination of passive fiber lenses mirrors and the like can be employed although various advantages may not be achieved. Furthermore a different pump laser can be used although the price and weight advantages of the present system may not be realized. Alternate doped fibers include Er Yb mixed Tm thulium and other dopants although certain advantages may not be achieved. It is also envisioned that operation with different core fiber diameters from 2 microns to 200 microns may be provided. Alternately the present system can reduce the repetition rate of an ultrafast fiber laser oscillator through the addition of a dispersive fiber instead of active pulse picking to achieve repetition rates slower than 10 MHz down to 1 MHz and in some cases as low as 0.5 MHz. It should be also be appreciated that any of the features of the various constructions disclosed herein can be interchanged and replaced with any of the other constructions and embodiments although certain advantages may not be realized. It is intended by the following claims to cover these and any other departures from the disclosed embodiments which fall within the true spirit of this invention.

