---

title: Systems and methods for computing device communications
abstract: Certain implementations of the disclosed technology may include systems and methods for computing device communications. According to an example implementation of the disclosed technology, a method is provided that can include determining a status and capability of at least one selected computing device, and sending a generated message to the at least one selected computing device. The at least one selected computing device is configured to retrieve content from a source identified by a uniform resource identifier in the message, and the at least one selected computing device is further configured to present the retrieved content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08904019&OS=08904019&RS=08904019
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08904019
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application is related to provisional application Ser. No. 61 752 151 filed on Jan. 14 2013 entitled Systems and Methods for Computing Device Communications the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Computing devices can be utilized in numerous applications for providing convenient access to information and entertainment content. Examples of typical computing devices include smart phones computer tablets information appliances and personal digital assistants PDAs . Certain forms of computing devices can be used with home entertainment systems and such devices may provide user friendly access to music videos web surfing etc. Some of the challenges associated with information devices include setup security content management and content delivery in a way that is convenient for the end user.

Some or all of the above needs may be addressed by certain implementations of the disclosed technology. Certain implementations of the disclosed technology may include systems and methods for information appliance communications.

According to an example implementation of the disclosed technology a computer implement method is provided that includes receiving at a server dynamic registry information for one or more computing devices registering at the server the one or more computing devices based at least in part on the received dynamic registry information and determining at the server a status and a capability of the one or more computing devices based at least in part on the received dynamic registry information.

The method also includes receiving at the server an indication of user selected content for presentation by the one or more registered computing devices generating at the server a message comprising a uniform resource identifier URI corresponding to a source for the user selected content and selecting at least one of the one or more registered computing devices for presenting the content.

Based on determining the status and capability of the at least one selected computing device the method includes sending the generated message to the at least one selected computing device wherein the at least one selected computing device is configured to retrieve the content from the source identified by the URI in the message and wherein the at least one selected computing device is further configured to present the retrieved content.

According to another example implementation a system is provided that includes at least one memory for storing data and computer executable instructions and at least one processor configured to access the at least one memory and further configured to execute the computer executable instructions to cause the systems to receive dynamic registry information for one or more computing devices register the one or more computing devices based at least in part on the received dynamic registry information and determine a status and a capability of the one or more computing devices based at least in part on the received dynamic registry information.

The at least one processor is further configured to execute the computer executable instructions to receive an indication of user selected content for presentation by at least one selected registered computing devices and generate a message comprising a uniform resource identifier URI corresponding to a source for the user selected content. Based on determining the status and capability of the at least one selected computing device the at least one processor is further configured to execute the computer executable instructions to send the generated message to the at least one selected computing device wherein the at least one selected computing device is configured to retrieve the content from the source identified by the URI in the message and wherein the at least one selected computing device is further configured to present the retrieved content.

According to another example implementation a computer readable medium is provided that stores instructions executable by one or more processors to perform a method comprising receiving at a server dynamic registry information for one or more computing devices registering at the server the one or more computing devices based at least in part on the received dynamic registry information and determining at the server a status and a capability of the one or more computing devices based at least in part on the received dynamic registry information. The method also includes receiving at the server an indication of user selected content for presentation by the one or more registered computing devices generating at the server a message comprising a uniform resource identifier URI corresponding to a source for the user selected content and selecting at least one of the one or more registered computing devices for presenting the content. Based on determining the status and capability of the at least one selected computing device the method includes sending the generated message to the at least one selected computing device wherein the at least one selected computing device is configured to retrieve the content from the source identified by the URI in the message and wherein the at least one selected computing device is further configured to present the retrieved content

According to an example implementation of the disclosed technology a computer implemented method is provided that includes receiving at a computing device based at least in part on the transmitted dynamic registry information that includes registration information for the information appliance a message comprising a uniform resource identifier URI corresponding to a source for display content. The method also includes retrieving at the computing device the content from the source identified by the URI launching at the computing device an application associated with the retrieved content and presenting the content. In certain example embodiments presenting the content comprises generating one or more of images rich web content custom visualization animation sound an update a setup scheduled content or a configuration.

Other implementations features and aspects of the disclosed technology are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed disclosed technologies. Other implementations features and aspects may be understood with reference to the following detailed description accompanying drawings and claims.

Implementations of the disclosed technology will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which implementations of the disclosed technology are shown. This disclosed technology may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein rather these implementations are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the disclosed technology to those skilled in the art.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is to be understood that implementations of the disclosed technology may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description. References to one implementation an implementation example implementation various implementations etc. indicate that the implementation s of the disclosed technology so described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but not every implementation necessarily includes the particular feature structure or characteristic. Further repeated use of the phrase in one implementation does not necessarily refer to the same implementation although it may.

As used herein unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives first second third etc. to describe a common object merely indicate that different instances of like objects are being referred to and are not intended to imply that the objects so described must be in a given sequence either temporally spatially in ranking or in any other manner.

Certain example implementations of the disclosed technology may address the need for sharing content for example movies music applications information etc. across different computing devices that are connected to the Internet. For example a laptop or desktop computer may have a large screen size full keyboard fast Internet connection and other ergonomic and speed advantages over a low cost entertainment type information appliance box that for example may provide an Internet connection for use with a user s television or entertainment center. A user in this example scenario may find it convenient or desirable to search for and select content using the desktop computer and cause the selected content to display play launch etc. on the entertainment center via the information appliance. In an example implementation of the disclosed technology a framework for computing device communication may allow the user to share content in this manner with qualified devices that are connected to the Internet. Such qualified devices may include mobile computing devices for example a smart phone or tablet computer information appliances and traditional computing devices such as a laptop or desktop computer.

Another aspect that may be addressed by certain example implementations of the disclosed technology include ability remotely determine the status and capability of the qualified device so that for example the user may know if the device is online properly connected and whether or not it is capable of handling the selected content. Such communications may be achieved by providing an Internet connection between the first device for selection of the content and one or more additional devices for playing the content . An example implementation of the disclosed technology provides a secure communications framework that allows securely selecting content on a first device and causing the content to launch on one or more remote qualified device s while listening to the remote device s to determine status and capability.

In certain example implementations of the disclosed technology communications between qualified devices may be utilized within a confined local area network such as a Wi Fi network however the scope of the disclosed technology provides communications between devices that are connected to the Internet without requiring the devices to be on the same logical local area network. For devices that are on the same local area network a secure socket layer SSL may be established SSL connections over Transmission Control Protocol TCP and Internet Protocol IP and a remote procedure call RPC requests and responses may be exchanged over this connection. In one example embodiment RPC may be an inter process communication that allows a computer program to cause a subroutine or procedure to execute in another address space commonly on another computer on a shared network without the programmer explicitly coding the details for this remote interaction.

According to an example embodiment a cloud RPC service is disclosed that may allow communication and synchronization of data between different devices via a cloud connection. In certain example implementations the devices are not required to be on the same local area network. In an example implementation the cloud RPC service may be utilized to send remote procedure calls from one device such as a smart phone or web browser to devices on another network. In one example implementation instead of needing to write native software to establish the SSL TCP connections that are used from the smart phone the web browser can go through a cloud bridge to send control commands and query the state of the remote device.

As an example consider the scenario where a user s mobile device such as a smart phone may have faster internet connection through a fourth generation 4G signal than it can get via an available Wi Fi network that is connected to the Internet. According to an example implementation of the disclosed technology if the user desires to control an information appliance that is connected to the Wi Fi network broker software running on the mobile device may be utilized to route the RPCs through a cloud bridge without the needing to join the Wi Fi network.

In accordance with an example implementation of the disclosed technology the cloud RPC may include one or more of the following 1 a frontend for high level interaction with the various services 2 service discovery outside the local network 3 RPC marshaling from the front end service to the format understood by the devices 4 a security model for web based access 5 routing of RPC requests and responses between different networks and 6 relaying of cloud RPCs to the appropriate service on the device.

According to an example implementation the frontend may be utilized to expose a high level interface to the various services. In an example implementation service discovery devices may periodically upload a list of running services to the cloud bridge which may store the list for future retrieval. In an example implementation the frontend application programming interface API may query the cloud bridge to display the services to the user. According to an example implementation RPC marshaling may be accomplished by employing a custom RPC format for transmitting data. For example a cloud RPC from the cloud bridge may use the same RPC format to simplify the client code that receives the RPCs.

In accordance with an example implementation security may be implemented by authenticated and authorized self signed certificates. In one embodiment the certificates may be distributed to the qualified devices that participate in the service. In an example implementation that utilizes cloud RPCs that come from web apps and thus no device based certificate will have been created for them the frontend may create a new certificate for web initiated RPCs and the cloud bridge may propagate them as it does any other authorized certificate.

According to an example implementation routing requests and responses may be handled by cloud messaging for example to push messages to devices. Cloud messaging may also be utilized to route cloud RPCs via the identification of the device running the service. Since cloud messaging may be asynchronous the cloud bridge may embed return address information in the request so it will be able to route the response to the original sender. According to certain example embodiments relaying cloud RPCs on the device running the service may utilize a broadcast receiver to receive the cloud messaging tickle and relay the payload as an RPC to the intended recipient.

In accordance with an example implementation of the disclosed technology a key store may be utilized to store derived keys used to encrypt decrypt a user s web credentials. In an example implementation a server may store the encrypted web credentials the list of services available and the routing info needed to send cloud RPCs.

Certain implementations of the disclosed technology may enable cost effective and efficient deployment and configuration of communications devices and associated displays. Example implementations may enable efficiently controlling content for display or presentation on such devices. In certain example implementations the content may include sound video rich web applications web pages images machine control updates etc. The use of the terms presentation or presenting herein is defined to mean any appropriate expression of the content on the targeted device. For example presentation may mean producing a visual image representation of selected content on a targeted screen or display. In another example presentation may mean reproducing sounds and so forth. According to example implementations sound may include music speech sequences of sound midi triggers etc. According to certain example implementations a cloud based internet system as described above may be utilized for securely sending uniform resource identifiers URIs of desired content to qualified selected devices such as TVs tablets mobile devices information appliances etc. In accordance with a example implementation the selected display devices may be sent the URI for the desired content from any browser or qualified device.

According to certain example implementations a custom service or application may be installed on the computing device device to register the device with a server. Once registered and according to an example implementation the custom service or application may enable the registered device to listen for updates from a central server and or be controlled remotely. In certain example embodiments the registration process may provide the registration server with information that allows the registration server to determine the capabilities of the device so that for example if the computing device does not have the capability for presenting video then it may not be selected for applications that require video.

According to an example implementation when the target device receives the URI it may create a software object known as an Intent. Those skilled in the art are familiar with an Intent which may include but is not limited to action data and or other associated attributes. In one example implementation based on the received URI the Intent information can be handled by the device s operating system in an appropriate manner. For example upon receiving a URI http www.youtube.com v MyC0o1V1d3o the device operating system may create the action of opening up a specific YouTube player on the device instead of opening a web browser and upon receiving the URI the device may pull the content with identification MyC0o1V1d3o from a YouTube server.

Certain example implementations of the disclosed technology may also be utilized to format send and or receive other various information to from the device. For example maintenance commands scheduling for different content notification of software updates from the server requests for sensor data or logs and pings to determine continued availability and or status.

In accordance with certain example implementations a custom operating system may be utilized for controlling access to protected content. For example a client may access content restricted to its domain by running the custom system with a domain authenticated account. In one example implementation an operating system employing cloud messaging may be utilized on the devices to enable content security and control of the devices. In accordance with certain example implementations cloud messaging may provide push notifications to the device eliminating the need for polling a server from the device or for a persistent network connection. According to certain example implementations cloud messaging capabilities may be built into the device platform which may enable any qualified device with an updated operating system to be utilized for receiving the push messages and pulling the identified content for presentation.

In certain example implementations a message from the central server to the device may need to contain information that exceeds a limitation for cloud messaging. For example currently C2DM cloud to device messaging C2DM messages are limited to a 1024 bit length and according to certain example implementations such limitations may be handled for overly long messages by sending a follow on notification containing a URI pointing back to the server itself similar to a URL shortening service . For example a message with the following long URL link http www.myreally . . . . . . longurl.com may be sent to the device as a short key http server 12345 or pointer to a URL on the server which when accessed by the device returns the original long URL that can then be acted on as usual. In this way network round trips only need to be utilized for those URLs that are too long to be messaged within the C2DM length limit. In accordance with example implementations the disclosed technology may utilize cloud messages that are shorter or longer than the current C2DM 1024 byte length limit as such systems may change with new standards technology available bandwidth etc. For example C2DM messages having a limit length of 2048 bytes or greater may be available. Therefore implementations of the disclosed technology are not limited by the current C2DM length limit.

According to certain example implementations certain URIs whose cloud message would be over the limit for a single message may be handled by disassembling the long message and sending it as a series of short messages to the device where it may be reassembled. For example a central server may break the long URI into fragments which are each sent in a messages from which the remote device reassembles the fragments into the original URI that can then be utilized to initiate an action. According to another example implementation a central server may construct a unique sufficiently short URI which may sent in a single message that the remote device may then utilize to get the content. In an example implementation a URL shortening service may be implemented either on the central server or via an external service.

In accordance with example implementations the remote devices displays may be controlled remotely by an authorized entity or owner. The authorized entity or owner may limit access to the devices displays for example to avoid display of inappropriate content or other abuses.

In certain example implementations a specific targeted message may be sent to one individual remote device display which may in turn initiate the device display to pull content from a specific source for presentation on the display. According to another example implementation multiple devices displays may be grouped for bulk control of content or updates. For example an authorized entity may select all displays in reception areas worldwide for content updates. In another example implementation content may be scheduled. According to certain example implementations content may be scheduled for display with primary content scheduled for certain periods secondary content scheduled for other periods and so forth. For example between the hours of 9 am and 5 pm content from a first URL may be displayed. Otherwise content from a second URL may be displayed. According to an example implementation content may be stored on a system in communication with the cloud messaging server to enable resending favorites or history.

Example implementations may utilize push technology for digital signage. For example a cloud messaging system may be utilized as a push mechanism to send user s content choices URIs to devices which may include digital signage. According to an example implementation the message system may also provide instructions that are not necessarily user specified URIs for example system commands updates etc. may be provided to one or more devices.

According to example implementations of the disclosed technology various components systems and methods for disseminating content to remote devices will now be described with reference to the accompanying figures.

In accordance with example implementations content may be disseminated to the devices after they are registered. Registration for example with each individual device may be utilized for discovery control authorization security listening and or subsequent communications with the device . According to an example implementation the devices may include an application or operating system component to initiate communications with the central server upon connection to the Internet . In one example implementation an operating system associated with the device may check for updates to the firmware or operating system when the device is connected to the Internet . In one implementation the update process may initiate registration of the device with the central server . In another implementation registration of the device with the central server may be initiated when the device detects an Internet connection .

According to one example implementation during registration the central server may communicate with the individual device to exchange registration information security keys device specific information etc. According to an example implementation the central server may store the registration information for each detected device . In an example implementation an ongoing process may be utilized to periodically update information about the devices for example to determine the capabilities of the device if certain cables are plugged in if the device is powered up etc. In one example implementation initial and or subsequent communications with the device involving cloud messages for content dissemination may include checking or verifying the device status information.

In accordance with certain example implementations an authorized user may be established during the registration process and subsequently validated via password authorization code secure encryption key exchange etc. In an example implementation once the registration process has completed and an authorized user has been established the authorized user may initiate content dissemination to any of the registered individual devices for which user is authorized to control. According to example implementations the authorized user may communicate with the central server and or a specific content source via workstation personal computer server mobile computing device smart phone etc.

According to an example implementation of the disclosed technology a content source may include a website a music application a movie repository a web app etc. In one example implementation a website associated with the content source may include code that enables a user to select one or more of their authorized device for dissemination of content. For example a movie repository may include a logon screen for verifying logon credentials that may be linked to the user s device account. Once logged on for example the website associated with the content source may check the central server for status and capability information associated with the user s authorized devices . According to an example implementation and depending on the type of content selected for dissemination only those authorized devices having the required capability to present the content may show up as a selectable device. In an example implementation authorized devices with the correct capability may be listed with status information. For example the device may have its HDMI cable unplugged and may report this as a status so that the central server and or the content source may provide such information to the user.

In accordance with certain example implementations of the disclosed technology and as previously discussed a specific targeted message may be sent to an individual remote device or multiple devices which may in turn initiate the device s to pull content from a specific content source for presentation on the device s and or separate devices and associated displays . For example the content source may include web pages images rich web applications video audio text movies music etc. According to example implementations the initiation of content dissemination to a device by an authorized user for example may involve communications with the central server which may produce or format a cloud message based on the content source the registration information and or the status and capability of the device s . According to an example implementation and as previously discussed the generated cloud message may then be sent to the individual device s and the cloud message may initiate the device s to pull the selected content from the specified content source .

Various implementations of the communication systems and methods herein may be embodied in non transitory computer readable media for execution by a processor. An example implementation may be used in an application of a mobile computing device such as a smartphone or tablet but other computing devices may also be used such as to portable computers tablet PCs Internet tablets PDAs ultra mobile PCs UMPCs information appliances etc.

The architecture of includes a central processing unit CPU where computer instructions are processed a display interface that acts as a communication interface and provides functions for rendering video graphics images and texts on the display. In certain example implementations of the disclosed technology the display interface may be directly connected to a local display such as a touch screen display associated with a mobile device. In another example implementation the display interface may be configured for providing data images and other information for an external remote display that may not necessarily be integrated with the device. For example a desktop monitor may be utilized for minoring graphics and other information that is presented on a mobile device. In certain example implementations the display interface may wirelessly communicate for example via a Wi Fi channel or other available network connection interface to the external remote display.

The architecture may include a keyboard interface that provides a communication interface to a keyboard and a sensor interface that for example may provides a communication interface to a pointing device or touch screen. Example implementations of the architecture may include an antenna interface that may provide a communication interface to an antenna a network connection interface that may provides a communication interface to a network and or the Internet. As mentioned above the display interface may be in communication with the network connection interface for example to provide information for display on a remote display that is not directly connected or attached to the system. In certain implementations a camera interface is provided that may serve as a communication interface and may provide functions for capturing digital images from a camera. In certain implementations a sound interface is provided as a communication interface for converting sound into electrical signals using a microphone and or for converting electrical signals into sound using a speaker. According to example implementations a random access memory RAM is provided where computer instructions and data may be stored in a volatile memory device for processing by the CPU .

According to an example implementation the architecture includes a read only memory ROM where invariant low level system code or data for basic system functions such as basic input and output I O startup or reception of keystrokes from a keyboard are stored in a non volatile memory device. According to an example implementation the architecture may include a storage medium or other suitable type of memory e.g. such as RAM ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM magnetic disks optical disks floppy disks hard disks removable cartridges flash drives where the files include an operating system application programs including for example a web browser application a widget or gadget engine and or other applications as necessary and data files are stored. In an example implementation the application programs may include a cloud messaging module for preparing and formatting cloud to device messages. In an example implementation the application programs may include a registration module for registering devices such as devices in or .

According to an example implementation the architecture includes a power source that provides an appropriate alternating current AC or direct current DC to power components. According to an example implementation the architecture may include a telephony subsystem to allow the device to transmit and receive sound over a telephone network. The constituent devices and the CPU may communicate with each other over a bus .

In accordance with an example implementation the CPU has appropriate structure to be a computer processor. In one arrangement the computer CPU may include more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data may be stored in the RAM where the data may be accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device . A computer program product such as one utilizing a communication system may be tangibly embodied in storage medium which may comprise a machine readable storage medium.

An example method for disseminating content to a device will now be described with reference to the flowchart of . The method starts in block and according to an example implementation of the disclosed technology includes receiving at a server dynamic registry information for one or more computing devices. Dynamic registry information for example may include registry information that is updatable and or that may be changeable by new registry information. In block the method includes registering at the server the one or more computing devices based at least in part on the received dynamic registry information. In block the method includes determining at the server a status and a capability of the one or more computing devices based at least in part on the received dynamic registry information. In block the method includes receiving at the server an indication of user selected content for presentation by the one or more registered computing devices. In block the method includes generating at the server a message comprising a uniform resource identifier URI corresponding to a source for the user selected content. In block the method includes selecting at least one of the one or more registered computing devices for presenting the content. In block the method includes sending the generated message to the at least one selected computing device based on determining the status and capability of the at least one selected computing device wherein the at least one selected computing device is configured to retrieve the content from the source identified by the URI in the message and wherein the at least one selected computing device is further configured to present the retrieved content.

Example implementations of the disclosed technology further include systems methods and computer readable media for receiving at the server user credential information related to the one or more computing devices and controlling the generated message based at least in part on the user credential information. In an example implementation the selected computing device is further configured to send dynamic registry information to the server wherein the dynamic registry information includes real time capability information associated with the one or more computing devices. An example implementation further includes associating the content with one or more corresponding default applications for opening and presenting the retrieved content at the at least one selected computing device. In an example implementation sending the generated message to the at least one selected registered remote device includes sending information for generating one or more of images rich web content custom visualizations sound an update a setup a configuration or scheduling information.

An example method for registering a device will now be described with reference to the flowchart of . The method starts in block and according to an example implementation of the disclosed technology includes receiving at a computing device a uniform resource identifier URI based on dynamic registry information that includes registration information associated with the computing device. In block the method includes retrieving at the computing device content from a source identified by the URI. In block the method includes launching at the computing device an application associated with the retrieved content. In block the method includes. presenting the content at the computing device.

An example implementation of the method may also include transmitting from computing device dynamic registry information to a registration database. In an example implementation presenting the content includes generating one or more of images rich web content custom visualization animation sound an update a setup scheduled content or a configuration.

Example implementations of the disclosed technology further include systems methods and computer readable media for associating a default application with one or more of information in the URI or information in the retrieved content. An example implementation includes associating the content with one or more corresponding default applications for opening and presenting the content.

According to example implementations presenting the content comprises generating one or more of images rich web content custom visualization animation sound an update a setup a configuration or scheduling. Example implementations include associating the content with corresponding default applications for opening and presenting the content. An example implementation includes receiving a message that is less than or equal to a cloud to device messaging length limit. In one example implementation receiving the message includes receiving a message that is less than or equal 1024 bytes. In one example implementation receiving the message includes receiving a message that is less than or equal 2048 bytes. In one example implementation receiving the message includes receiving a message that is less than or equal 4096 bytes. Example implementations further include receiving a secondary reference URI associated with a primary URI when length restrictions are exceeded in the message wherein the secondary reference URI corresponds to the source for the content.

In an example implementation transmitting the dynamic registry information includes transmitting a status of the one or more computing devices. In an example implementation transmitting the dynamic registry information includes transmitting a capability of the one or more computing devices.

According to example implementations certain technical effects can be provided such as creating certain systems and methods that provide efficient content dissemination to remote devices for presentation. Example implementations of the disclosed technology can provide the further technical effects of providing systems and methods for utilizing one device to control content for presentation on one or more remote devices.

In example implementations of the disclosed technology the computing device dissemination system and or the system architecture may include any number of hardware and or software applications that are executed to facilitate any of the operations. In example implementations one or more I O interfaces may facilitate communication between the computing device dissemination system and or the system architecture and one or more input output devices. For example a universal serial bus port a serial port a disk drive a CD ROM drive and or one or more user interface devices such as a display keyboard keypad mouse control panel touch screen display microphone etc. may facilitate user interaction with the computing device dissemination system and or the system architecture . The one or more I O interfaces may be utilized to receive or collect data and or user instructions from a wide variety of input devices. Received data may be processed by one or more computer processors as desired in various implementations of the disclosed technology and or stored in one or more memory devices.

One or more network interfaces may facilitate connection of the computing device dissemination system and or the system architecture inputs and outputs to one or more suitable networks and or connections for example the connections that facilitate communication with any number of peripherals associated with the system. The one or more network interfaces may further facilitate connection to one or more suitable networks for example a local area network a wide area network the Internet a cellular network a radio frequency network a Bluetooth enabled network a Wi Fi enabled network a satellite based network any wired network any wireless network etc. for communication with external devices and or systems.

As desired implementations of the disclosed technology may include the dissemination system and or the control system with more or less of the components illustrated in .

Certain implementations of the disclosed technology are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems and methods and or computer program products according to example implementations of the disclosed technology. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some implementations of the disclosed technology.

These computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer a special purpose computer a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. As an example implementations of the disclosed technology may provide for a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code or program instructions embodied therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide elements or steps for implementing the functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

While certain implementations of the disclosed technology have been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and various implementations it is to be understood that the disclosed technology is not to be limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

This written description uses examples to disclose certain implementations of the disclosed technology including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice certain implementations of the disclosed technology including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of certain implementations of the disclosed technology is defined in the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims.

