---

title: Call handling using social network data
abstract: Call handling options are selected for calls using social network data that is descriptive of the relationship of a caller to a call recipient in a social networking platform. An identifier for a calling device is used to access social network data that is descriptive of a relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform. A call handling option for a call is selected, from among multiple, different call handling options, based on the social network data that is descriptive of the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08983440&OS=08983440&RS=08983440
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 08983440
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130107
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 668 651 filed on Jul. 6 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Phones typically alert the user of the phone when an incoming call is received. Ringtones vibrations or other alerts can be produced to inform the user that an incoming call has been received. However when calls are received at inconvenient times these alerts can be a nuisance. Unsolicited calls from marketers and others can be distracting and annoying. Typically a user may turn off a phone or silence the phone s alerts. But after doing so the user may miss important calls received while the phone is silenced or turned off.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Techniques are described for using social network data to select and perform call handling actions for received communications e.g. calls electronic mail messages text messages etc. . In some implementations a phone or other electronic device receives a call and accesses information about connections in a social networking platform between a caller and a recipient of the call. In these implementations the electronic device uses the information about the connections to automatically determine whether for example to produce an alert and allow the call to be answered to direct the call to voicemail or to block the call. The electronic device selects the call handling option for a particular call from among multiple call handling options that are each associated with a different type of social networking relationship.

In some implementations electronic devices select or modify call handling options based on one or more factors that reflect the likely importance of calls to the recipient. Examples of factors that may indicate the importance of a call include the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform the geographic proximity of the caller to the recipient and significant life events recently experienced by the caller. The presence of any of these factors and others can be determined using social network data. The social network data may be stored on an electronic device prior to receiving a call or may be received by the electronic device after receiving the call for example over a network.

Automatic call handling based on social networking connections may allow call recipients to receive calls that are likely to be important while reducing the disturbance of unwanted calls. As an example a user may receive a phone call at 2 00 am. If the caller is unknown to the user such as when the caller simply dials an incorrect phone number the user may be annoyed to be woken up in the night. By contrast the recipient may desire to answer the call if the caller is a family member of the user since the family member may have an urgent reason for calling. To avoid unnecessary disturbance a user may designate that his phone should block calls received after midnight when the caller is not connected to the user in a social network. The user also may designate that his phone should allow all calls from callers designated as family members in a social network regardless of the time. Thus after midnight the caller s phone rings when a family member calls but not when an unknown caller calls.

In some implementations when an electronic device receives a call the electronic device obtains an identifier for a calling device from which the call originated. The electronic device uses the identifier to access social network data that is descriptive of a relationship of the caller to the call recipient in a social network. The electronic device selects from among multiple different call handling options a call handling option for the call based on the social network data and uses the selected call handling option to perform a call handling action for the call.

As an example when a user receives a call from a caller designated as a friend in the social networking platform the user s electronic device may allow the phone to produce an audible alert. When the user receives a call from a caller who is designated as a family member of the user in the social networking platform the user s electronic device performs a second different call handling action such as forwarding the call to another device. When the user receives a call from an unknown caller that has no relationship or only a remote relationship to the user in the social networking platform the user s electronic device performs a third different call handling action such as sending the call straight to voicemail without providing any audible alert. In a similar manner the electronic device may perform different call handling actions for calls from callers who are for example friends of the user s friends co workers or members of a group defined in the social networking platform.

In some implementations the automatic call handling is performed based on multiple factors. An electronic device can select a call handling option based on both i a relationship of a caller to a recipient in the social networking platform and ii the geographic proximity of the caller to the recipient where both the relationship and the proximity are determined using social network data. As an example the electronic device selects a call handling option based on the relationship between the caller and the recipient. The electronic device modifies the call handling option when social network data indicates that the caller is located within a particular distance of the recipient. For instance when the call handling option designates that the electronic device should send the call to voicemail the electronic device may instead allow the phone to ring due to the geographic proximity of the caller.

The electronic device such as a phone is a calling device associated with a caller . The electronic device such as a phone is associated with a recipient . Using the electronic device the caller initiates a communication to the recipient which is received by the electronic device . In response to the communication the manner in which the electronic device responds is based on the relationship of the caller to the recipient in a social networking platform. As described further below the server system provides social network data e.g. data about user identities and relationships in a social network over the network . The electronic device uses data from the server system to determine a relationship between the caller and the recipient and thus select an appropriate response to the received communication.

In general call handling typically involves performing one or more actions with respect to a call or other communication. Some call handling actions affect the status of the call e.g. answering forwarding or terminating the call . Other call handling actions may involve a response that does not necessarily change the status of the call e.g. playing or suppressing an alert or sending a notification to another device . Call handling actions may be performed for example in response to receipt of the call while the call is active after the call has terminated or any combination thereof. As described further below call handling rules can designate one or more call handling actions that are performed for calls that satisfy one or more conditions. One of the conditions of a call handling rule can be that the caller must have a particular relationship to the call recipient in a social network. Whether the identity of the caller or other circumstances of the call satisfy the conditions can be determined using social network data as described further below.

In further detail in the illustrated example the electronic device is a phone and the electronic device initiates a phone call. As an alternative the call can be a voice call e.g. whether connected over a telephone network or another network a video call a chat message a short message service SMS text message or a communication of another type.

The incoming call is received at the electronic device which is associated with the call recipient . The electronic device obtains an identifier for the electronic device that initiated the call. In the illustrated example the identifier is a phone number assigned to the electronic device . The phone number for the caller can be obtained from for example automatic number identification ANI data or calling number identification CNID data provided in association with the incoming call. Different identifiers can additionally or alternatively be obtained. For example the identifier can be an identifier for the caller such as a user name or an electronic address e.g. an e mail address Twitter feed address etc. .

In some implementations the identifier used to identify the social networking user identity of the caller is caller identification data e.g. caller identification data provided with the call . For instance caller identification data may indicate a name of the caller . To obtain information about the caller the electronic device and or the server system may look up social network data associated with a name that matches the name indicated by the caller identification data.

The electronic device uses the identifier to access social network data that is descriptive of a relationship of the caller to the call recipient in a social network. Examples of social networks include Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google MySpace and Orkut to name a few. As described further below electronic social networking platforms may indicate a variety of relationships between human users of the social network. Examples of these relationships include social friendships family relationships professional relationships and affiliations with groups or organizations. Relationships are often represented by connections between user identities corresponding to the respective human users. When a connection exists between user identities and thus a relationship also exists between the associated human users one user may be termed a friend a connection a follower or a subscriber of another user or the relationship may have another designation.

In some implementations the electronic device stores social network data on the electronic device prior to receiving the communication and accesses the stored social network data in response to receipt of the communication. The stored data can include for example a list identifying friends of the recipient in the social networking platform or other users directly connected to the recipient in the social networking platform. In the illustrated example the electronic device accesses social network data from an internal memory device. The social network data is cached data that was received through for example interactions of the electronic device with a social networking service before the incoming call is received. This social network data may be stored in an independent data structure for example as a data file for a particular application. In addition or as an alternative the social network data may be stored with e.g. combined or merged with other contact data stored by the electronic device for example in a contact list or phone book of the electronic device. In some implementations the electronic device automatically and occasionally e.g. periodically retrieves social network data over the network and stores the received data as cached social network data . The social network data includes for example identifiers for users that have relationships to the recipient in the social networking platform and data that identifies relationships of those users to the recipient . In the illustrated example the social network data associates phone numbers of various users with their respective relationships to the recipient .

Based on receipt of the call the electronic device compares the identifier with the stored social network data . If the electronic device finds the identifier in the social network data the electronic device uses relationship data associated with the identifier to select a call handling option as described further below. If the electronic device determines that the identifier is not found in the social network data and thus is not recognized in the social network data the electronic device obtains additional social network data from another source.

In the example of the electronic device determines that the identifier e.g. the phone number of the caller 999 9999 is not present in the social network data and consequently that the stored social network data does not identify a social networking relationship for the user associated with the identifier . Because the identifier is not recognized in social network data stored at the electronic device the electronic device requests social network data from the server system over the network . In the illustrated example the electronic device sends a request for social network data. The request includes the identifier for the electronic device from which the call originated. The request also includes an identifier for the recipient or the electronic device associated with the recipient . For example the identifier may be a user name e.g. User1 or an electronic address for the recipient in the social networking platform. In addition or as an alternative the identifier may be a phone number for the electronic device e.g. the number 555 5555 or another identifier for the electronic device . The electronic device sends the request in response to receiving the call. Thus the electronic device sends the request after the call is received at the electronic device e.g. while the call is active .

The server system receives the request and obtains data that enables determination of what relationship if any exists in the social networking platform between the recipient and a user associated with the identifier e.g. the caller . For example the server system accesses social network data stored in one or more data storage devices to identify a user identity associated with the identifier . The server system then accesses information about social networking connections of the recipient to determine whether the identified user identity has a relationship with the recipient within the social networking platform and if so what relationship exists. The server system may additionally or alternatively access information about social networking connections of the caller .

In some implementations the server system determines that a particular relationship exists between the caller and the recipient within the social networking platform and indicates the determined relationship to the electronic device . In other implementations the server system provides social network data e.g. such as the identity of the caller a list of social network connections of the caller and or a list of connections of the recipient and the electronic device examines the social network data to determine what if any relationship exists within the social networking platform.

In some instances the caller may not be directly connected to the recipient in the social networking platform. Nevertheless the caller may be indirectly related to the recipient through for example one or more mutual friends or other connections in the social networking platform. In this regard the server system compares social networking profile data for the caller and the recipient to determine whether the caller and the recipient have common interests or other commonalities that are reflected in the social networking platform. As another example the server system determines whether the caller and the recipient are both affiliated with a particular organization in the social networking platform such as an alumni group or professional organization.

In the illustrated example the server system determines that a user the caller is associated with the identifier . The server system also determines that the caller is not a friend of and is not otherwise directly connected to the recipient . The server system analyzes the connections for the caller and the recipient and determines that the caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient in the social networking platform. In other words the server system determines that at least one of the friends of the recipient in the social networking platform is also a friend of the caller in the social networking platform.

The server system responds to the request by providing social network data to the electronic device . The social network data is descriptive of the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform. The social network data can be data from which the relationship can be derived by the electronic device and need not explicitly indicate the relationship. In the illustrated example the social network data received by the electronic device indicates that the caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient in the social networking platform.

Based on the social network data the electronic device selects a call handling option for the call. In particular the electronic device selects a call handling option that is designated for calls from callers having the relationship which the caller has with the recipient in the social networking platform. For example the electronic device selects the call handling option for the call from among multiple different call handling options that are each associated with a particular social networking relationship or set of social networking relationships. Call handling options can be associated with groups or sets of users where the sets of users are defined in the social networking platform. A few examples include sets of users designated in a social networking platform as friends family members friends of friends or co workers. Other examples include users that are unknown to the recipient users included in a subset of a larger set or users having an affiliation or group membership in common with the recipient .

As shown the electronic device selects the call handling option for the call using call handling rules that associate call handling options with different social networking relationships. The call handling rules can be stored at the electronic device e.g. stored prior to receiving the call or can be received over the network . As described further below the user of an electronic device may define call handling rules according to his or her preferences. When the call handling rules are defined based on input from the recipient the response of the electronic device to the call is customized as the recipient desires. Alternatively the electronic device can use a standard set of call handling rules that is not based on input from the recipient . The electronic device can use one or more call handling rules defined by a user and one or more call handling rules that are not defined based on user input.

In the illustrated example the electronic device selects from among various call handling options that dictate when the electronic device notifies the recipient of an incoming call and when the electronic device does not output an alert. Call handling options may additionally or alternatively specify other call handling actions. Examples of call handling actions include providing an alert for the call and permitting the call to be answered allowing an alert for the call to continue for a particular amount of time without disconnecting the call suppressing an alert for the call blocking or disconnecting the call forwarding the call to another device forwarding the call to voicemail providing a missed call alert after the call terminates suppressing a missed call alert for the call adding the call to a call list excluding the call from a call list sending a message to the calling device sending to the electronic device data regarding a calendar associated with the call recipient and sending a message to a third device that is different from the electronic device and the electronic device .

According to the call handling rule when a call is received from a caller designated as family member of the recipient within the social networking platform the electronic device always rings to alert the recipient . According to the call handling rule when a call is received from a caller designated as a friend of the recipient within the social networking platform the electronic device rings only if the call is received between 7 00 am and 11 00 pm. According to the call handling rule when a call is received from a caller designated as a friend of a friend of the recipient within the social networking platform the electronic device rings only if the call is received between 9 00 am and 9 00 pm. According to the call handling rule when a call is received from a caller designated as a co worker of the recipient within the social networking platform the electronic device rings only if the call is received on a weekday. According to the call handling rule when a call is received from a caller determined to be unknown to the recipient e.g. unconnected or very remotely connected to the recipient in the social networking platform the electronic device rings only if the call is received on a weekday between 9 00 am and 6 00 pm.

In some implementations and in some social networking platforms some social networking relationships are defined to include a subset of the users that each have another more general relationship to the recipient . For example from a set of friends or direct connections of the recipient in the social networking platform different subsets of the friends may be further designated as family members co workers etc. Accordingly in these implementations each user designated as a family member or co worker may also be a friend of the recipient .

In some implementations the electronic device uses call handling rules defined so that one call handling option is selected for each call to the exclusion of the other call handling options. Nevertheless one call handling option may specify multiple actions to be performed e.g. allow the call to ring send a notification to another device and add an entry to a call log .

In the example of the electronic device determines based on the received social network data that the caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient within the social networking platform and thus that the call handling rule is applicable. From among the call handling options specified by the various call handling rules the electronic device selects the call handling option to ring only between 9 00 am and 9 00 pm as specified by the call handling rule

The electronic device uses the selected call handling option to perform a call handling action. In the illustrated example the electronic device determines that the current time e.g. 4 32 pm is within the range of time during which alerts should be provided. The electronic device outputs an audible alert such as a ringtone to indicate that the call has been received. The call is thus handled by the electronic device as specified by the call handling rules based on the social networking relationship of the caller to the recipient .

In some implementations the electronic device stores prior to receiving a call sufficient information to permit determination of the relationship between the caller and the recipient in the social networking platform. For example prior to receiving the call the stored social network data may include information about users who are designated as friends family members friends of friends co workers etc. of the recipient within the social networking platform. In such implementations when the electronic device receives a call and the electronic device already stores information that enables determination of the relationship or lack thereof between a caller and a recipient the electronic device determines the relationship without requesting social network data from the server system .

In some implementations to identify a social networking user identity for the caller the electronic device compares caller identification data e.g. a name of the caller etc. with stored social network data and provides the caller identification data to the server system . The server system may also compare the caller identification data to social network data or request data associated with the caller identification data from a social networking platform. When a social networking user profile has a name that matches the name indicated in the caller identification data or when other matching data is identified the profile may be determined to be a user profile for the caller .

The server system in the example of can be operated by an operator of a social networking platform. Alternatively the server system can be operated by a third party that does not operate the social networking platform. For example a third party server system can provide social network data to users of an application or service that interacts with or supplements the functionality of a social networking service provided by the operator of the social network. The operations performed by the server system can be performed by individual computer systems or can be distributed across multiple computer systems. The network can be wired or wireless or a combination of both and the network can include one or more public or private networks and can include the Internet.

In some implementations each of multiple different types of social networking relationships is associated with a different call handling option. However a one to one correspondence between a particular call handling option and a particular social networking relationship type is not required. The same call handling option can be associated with two or more different types of social networking relationships. As an example calls from family members and friends can be assigned the same call handling option. As another example calls from friends can be associated with a first call handling option and calls from all other types of callers can be associated with a second different call handling option.

In some implementations the social network data indicates multiple relationships between the caller and the recipient . In these implementations the electronic device accesses a hierarchy of relationships and selects the call handling option corresponding to the relationship that is deemed the closest to the user. For example if the social network data indicates that a caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient and also that the caller is directly connected as a friend of the recipient the electronic device selects the call handling option based on the direct friendship because it is a closer relationship than an indirect relationship.

In some implementations the social networking platform from which the social network data is obtained is different from the provider of the communication channel for the call. In the illustrated example the social networking platform is operated independently of the phone service that is used to provide the call. As another example where social network data is obtained in response to a video call social network data may be obtained from a social networking platform separate from the provider of the video call communication channel. Thus the social network data obtained is distinct from for example contact lists defined for use with the video call service and maintained by the video communication provider.

Any of a variety of techniques may be used to associate an electronic device with a user. In some implementations a server system stores data that associates an identifier for a device e.g. a phone number for a phone with an identifier for a social networking user identity e.g. a username or electronic address for the user identity of the owner of the phone . As an example an electronic device may be associated with a user when the user has registered with a social networking platform and or an independent application that provides the social network data a phone number of the electronic device as being associated with the user. For example the caller may designate in a social networking user profile for the caller that the identifier is a phone number for the caller .

In some implementations an electronic device is associated with a user when the user has stored in memory that resides on the electronic device a user identifier for the user. The user identifier may identify for example a user identity of the user in a social networking platform or may identify a user account in a third party service such as an independent application that provides social network data.

In some implementations an electronic device is associated with a user when the user is logged into an application on the electronic device and or a host server. In addition or as an alternative an electronic device may be associated with a user when the user is logged into a social networking platform using the electronic device. One or more of these log ins or others may be used to identify a user with which a particular electronic device is associated.

In response to receiving the call the electronic device compares the identifier with the stored social network data . The electronic device determines that the stored social network data does not indicate a relationship of the caller to the recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device then provides the identifier for the electronic device and the identifier for the recipient to the server system in a request for social network data.

The server system provides social network data that indicates that the caller is unknown to the recipient . In this example the server system determines that the caller is unknown to the recipient because the caller is not connected to the recipient in the social networking platform with any of a predetermined set of relationship types. In some examples a caller is considered to be unknown when there is no direct connection between the caller and the recipient.

In some implementations the server system or the electronic device determines whether the caller is unknown based on the proximity of the caller to the recipient in the social networking platform. The caller can be designated as unknown when a separation distance between the caller and the recipient exceeds a threshold. Proximity in the social networking platform may be measured in terms of degrees of separation between the two users. For example proximity between two users of an electronic social networking platform may be calculated as the fewest number of connections required to link the user identities or user profiles of the corresponding users. When a caller is directly connected to the recipient in the social networking platform the distance between them is one connection. When a caller is connected to the recipient only through an intermediate user e.g. when the caller is directly connected to a user that is directly connected to the recipient the distance is two connections. A relationship distance of three can be defined for a caller connected to the recipient only through two intermediate users and so on. In the illustrated example the caller is considered unknown or unconnected to the recipient when the distance exceeds two connections e.g. the relationship is more remote than a friend of a friend .

The electronic device receives the social network data and based on the social network data determines that the caller is unknown to the recipient within the social networking platform. The electronic device selects a call handling option for the call using the call handling rules . From among the set of available call handling options the electronic device selects the call handling option indicated by the call handling rule which designates for example that audible alerts are only provided on weekdays between 9 00 am and 6 00 pm. The electronic device determines that the call is received on a Saturday and thus not on a weekday so no audible alert should be produced. Accordingly the electronic device automatically sends the call to voicemail without ringing or otherwise producing an alert. The recipient thus avoids the nuisance of an unwanted phone call and is not required to provide any user input at the time of the call to handle the call.

As described above the call handling option associated with calls from callers of a particular relationship status can be designated by the recipient and stored by the electronic device . Thus any appropriate call handling action or combination of actions can be performed based on the relationship of the caller to the recipient .

In some implementations the electronic device stores prior to receiving a call sufficient information to permit determination of whether the caller is unknown to the recipient in the social networking platform. When the electronic device stores information that enables determination of the relationship between a caller and a recipient before a call is received the electronic device may determine that the caller is unknown to the recipient in the social networking platform without requesting social network data from the server system .

In some implementations the electronic device requests social network data from multiple different social networking platforms that have different operators. For example the recipient or the caller may have a user identity in each of several different social networking platforms. In this example the electronic device requests social network data from multiple of the social networking platforms. The electronic device selects the call handling option for the call based on data from any of the social networking platforms including based on a combination of data received from different social networking platforms.

As an example the electronic device determines that a caller and a recipient are unconnected in a first social networking platform but are connected as friends in a second independently operated social networking platform. By requesting and receiving social network data from the first social networking platform and the second social networking platform the electronic device determines the friend relationship even though it is not present in each of the social networking platforms. As another example the electronic device determines that a caller is a friend of a particular user in a first social networking platform and the recipient is a friend of the particular user in a second different social networking platform. Even if the caller and the recipient do not have any mutual friends in a single social networking platform the electronic device obtains information identifying the friends of the caller and the friends of the recipient in both social networking platforms. By combining the data from the two social networking platforms the electronic device determines that the caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient even though the information is not reflected in data from any single social networking platform.

In response to receiving the call the electronic device compares the identifier with the stored social network data . From the results of the comparison the electronic device determines that the identifier is associated with a friend of the recipient within the social networking platform. Because the stored social network data indicates the relationship of the caller to the recipient within the social networking platform and because the social network data is present at the electronic device when the call is received the electronic device does not need to request or receive additional social network data over the network .

Having determined that the caller is a friend of the recipient within the social networking platform the electronic device selects an appropriate call handling option from among the call handling options specified by the various call handling rules . In the illustrated example the electronic device selects the call handling option indicated by the call handling rule to provide an audible alert if the call is received between 7 00 am and 11 00 pm. The electronic device determines the time of the call e.g. 7 17 pm . The electronic device also determines that according to the selected call handling option the time of the call is within the range of time that audible alerts should be provided. In response the electronic device outputs an alert that notifies the recipient of the call allowing the recipient to answer the call if the recipient chooses.

The examples of illustrate call handling actions in response to initiation of an interactive communication e.g. a voice call or video call . Connections or relationships in a social networking platform can additionally or alternatively be used to select operations to be performed in response to other communication events e.g. the termination of a call or a discrete event such as the receipt of a text message or e mail message .

In addition in some implementations the same call handling option is associated with two or more different types of relationships in the social networking platform. For example a user may designate a particular call handling option for calls received from callers designated as family members within the social networking platform and the user may designate the same call handling option for calls received from friends of the recipient within the social networking platform. Of course in some implementations the call handling options designated for calls from different sets of users are different as described above.

There are many different examples of electronic social networking platforms. As described above Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google MySpace and Orkut are a few examples. But there are many others and it is reasonable to expect many more to be launched in the future.

Electronic social networking platforms frequently enable individual user identities e.g. users who have registered with a platform and or who have been assigned a unique or otherwise identifying identifier by the platform to establish connections with other user identities. These connections between user identities may reflect relationships between the underlying human users who correspond to the user identities. For example a connection between two user identities within an electronic social networking platform may reflect a social friendship e.g. developed through physical interaction in the real world and or through on line interaction in the cyber world or a professional relationship between the underlying human users who correspond to the user identities.

In some electronic social networking platforms a user identity may be able to unilaterally form a connection with another user identity. For example an electronic social networking platform may enable a first user identity to form a connection to a second user identity simply by specifying a desire to form a connection to the second user identity and without requiring approval of the connection by the second user identity. Alternatively in other electronic social networking platforms the formation of connections between two user identities may be a bilateral process. For example in such electronic social networking platforms when a first user identity specifies a desire to form a connection to a second user identity the electronic social networking platform may establish the connection only after the second user identity approves the formation of the connection between the first user identity and the second user identity.

The connections formed between individual user identities within an electronic social networking platform may be represented in the form of a graph where user identities are represented by nodes and connections between user identities are represented by edges connecting the nodes. Such a graph of interconnected user identities may change dynamically in time as new user identities join and old user identities quit the electronic social networking platform and or as new connections are formed and old connections are dissolved. Proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be measured in terms of degrees of separation between the two user identities. For example proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be calculated as the fewest number of edges required to form a path between the two user identities within the graph representing the connections between user identities of the electronic social networking platform.

A user identity of an electronic social networking platform may form connections to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform thus forming a personal social network defined within the overall social networking platform. As used herein the social network of a particular entity refers to the connections and entities for the particular entity which form a subset of the entities and connections in the broader social networking platform which encompasses the user identities for all entities and the connections among them. In some cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined as the group of other user identities to whom the particular user identity is directly connected. Alternatively in other cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined to include a group of other user identities that are within a threshold number of degrees of separation of the particular user identity within the graph.

Electronic social networking platforms commonly facilitate sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between user identities and other user identities who are part of their social networks. In some implementations an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access more detailed profile information about the other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network than the electronic social networking platform allows the particular user identity to access about user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network. For example an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access information about the hometowns and or the current cities of residence of other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network but the electronic social networking platform may not allow the particular user identity to access this same information for user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network.

Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide communication conduits between a particular user identity and the other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network that the electronic social networking platform does not otherwise provide between the particular user identity and other user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network.

Furthermore some electronic social networking platforms may enable user identities to record information within the electronic social networking platforms about locations they have visited. In addition these electronic social networking platforms may enable a particular user identity to access such information about locations that members of the particular user identity s social network have registered with the social networking platforms. However these electronic social networking platforms may not allow a particular user identity to access similar information about locations that other user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network registered with the social networking platforms. In some electronic social networking platforms when a user identity registers a location that the user identity has visited messages may be broadcast to members of the user identity s social network reporting that the user identity has registered the location as a location that the user identity has visited.

As discussed above in some cases an electronic social networking platform may define a particular user identity s social network as the group of other user identities to whom the user identity is directly connected. If this definition is applied within the electronic social networking platform illustrated in the social network for the user identity represented by node would be defined as the group of other user identities represented by nodes .

In addition to enabling a user identity to establish connections to other user identities and thereby form a social network some electronic social networking platforms may enable a particular user identity to divide the user identity s social network into one or more subsets of user identities who may for example share one or more characteristics of significance to the particular user identity. For example a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may wish to define subsets of user identities within the particular user identity s social network that reflect other user identities with whom the particular user identity has a familial relationship a professional relationship or a social relationship. For ease of reference such defined subsets of a particular user s social network may be referred to herein as Friendlists. 

As further discussed above an electronic social networking application may facilitate the sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between a particular user identity and other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network. For example referring to the electronic social networking platform represented in the electronic social networking application may provide mechanisms that facilitate the exchange of electronic communications between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes who are part of the social network of the user identity represented by node . In some implementations the electronic social networking application may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send private electronic messages to any one or more of the user identities represented by nodes . Furthermore the electronic social networking application also may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to broadcast an electronic message that is shared publicly with all or some defined subset of all such as for example one or more Friendlists of the user identities represented by nodes . Additionally or alternatively the electronic social networking application may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send a directed electronic message to a user identity that is represented by a particular one of nodes . In such cases the recipient user identity of the directed message may determine whether this directed message is shared publicly with other user identities of the electronic social networking platform.

In addition to enabling user identities to establish connections to other user identities some electronic social networking platforms enable user identities to establish connections with other types of objects. For example some social networking platforms may enable user identities to record information about their hometowns current places of residence or places they have visited including geographic locations e.g. such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues local businesses or places e.g. such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. by establishing connections to location objects within the electronic social networking platforms.

Additionally or alternatively some social networking platforms may enable user identities to generate event objects within the electronic social networking platforms that represent events that they are hosting. After creating event objects for such events user identities may be provided with mechanisms for inviting other user identities to the events. Furthermore a connection may be established between an event object and a user identity within an electronic social networking platform as a result of the user identity being invited to the event and or as a result of the user identity registering with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will be attending the event.

Similarly some social networking platforms may enable user identities to record endorsements of various different types of interests for example by establishing connections to interest objects that represent these interests. Such interest objects may include a variety of different types of objects including for example non personal enterprise objects. Examples of such non personal enterprise objects may include among others local businesses or places e.g. restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. companies organizations or institutions brands or products artists bands or public figures forms of entertainment e.g. books music albums movies etc. and causes or communities. In some electronic social networking platforms interest objects including non personal enterprise objects may be manifested within the electronic social networking platforms as so called pages. These pages especially pages associated with non personal enterprise interest objects may be maintained by one or more representatives of the interests or non personal enterprises represented by the objects. In addition among other features these pages may provide information about the interests or non personal enterprises represented by the objects. These pages also may provide conduits for enabling interaction between the interest or non personal enterprise objects and the user identities that have formed connections to the objects that represent them.

Furthermore some social networking platforms may enable user identities to establish connections with independent applications that leverage the social networking platforms for example by granting the independent applications authorization to access or extract data from the electronic social networking platform on their behalf.

An edge that connects two nodes represents a connection that has been formed between the two objects that are represented by the connected nodes . For example the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections that have been formed between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes . For ease of reference such a connection between two user identity objects in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as a friend connection. 

Similarly the edge that connects node to node represents a connection between the user identity represented by node and the non personal enterprise object represented by node . As discussed above a user of an electronic social networking platform may form a connection to such a non personal enterprise object in order to record an endorsement of the non personal enterprise represented by the object. Therefore for ease of reference connections between a user identity object and a non personal enterprise object in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as an endorsement connection. 

Furthermore the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections that have been formed between the user identity represented by node and the location objects represented by nodes . Depending on the electronic social networking platform a user identity may be able to establish various different types of connections to location objects.

For example in order to store a record of the user identity s hometown the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a hometown connection to a location object that represents the user identity s hometown. Additionally or alternatively in order to store a record of the user identity s current residence the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a current city connection to a location object that represents the user identity s current residence.

Moreover in order to store a record of a place the user identity visited including geographic locations e.g. such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues local businesses or places e.g. such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a check in connection to a location object that represents a place that the user identity visited. In some cases an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually check in at a location. For example a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually define and or search for a location object that corresponds to a location that the user identity is visiting or has visited or plans to visit and create a connection to the location object that corresponds to the location in order to check in at the location. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location in a more intelligent or automated fashion. For instance a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location using a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone or tablet computer using global positioning system GPS and or map data available to the mobile computing device.

Finally the edge that connects node to node represents a connection that has been formed between the user identity represented by node and the event represented by event object node . For ease of reference such a connection between a user identity object and an event object may be referred to herein as event connections. There may be various different types of event connections between user identities and event objects in a social networking platform. For example one type of an event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity is the host of the event. Another type of an event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has been invited to the event. Still another type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will be attending the event. Yet another type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will not be attending the event. Still one more type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity tentatively will be attending the event.

In some electronic social networking platforms that enable user identities to form connections with object types like location objects event objects and interest objects e.g. non personal enterprise objects such location objects event objects and or interest objects e.g. non personal enterprise objects each may be associated with one or more representatives. Furthermore the electronic social networking platforms may enable these representatives to interact with the user identities to whom the objects are connected using the manifestation of the object within the electronic social networking platform.

For example a non personal enterprise object within an electronic social networking platform may be manifested as a page that provides information about the non personal enterprise that the object represents and the electronic social networking platform may enable one or more designated representatives associated with the page to share information and exchange electronic communications with the user identities connected to the non personal enterprise object in a manner in which such shared information or exchanged communications appear to involve the page as opposed to an individual user identity. In one particular example the electronic social networking platform may provide a mechanism that enables one or more representatives associated with the non personal enterprise to broadcast an electronic message that is shared publicly with all or some defined subset of all of the user identities to which the non personal enterprise object is connected.

Additionally or alternatively an event object within an electronic social networking platform also may be manifested as an event page that provides information about the event the object represents e.g. date time and location information for the event and the electronic networking platform may enable one or more designated representatives associated with the event e.g. the hosts to share information and exchange electronic communications with user identities who have been invited to the event via the event page. In some electronic social networking platforms both personal user identities and non personal enterprise objects and their representatives may be able to create and host events.

Electronic social networking platforms often enable user identities to maintain user profiles or other collections of data that include information about the user identities to whom they correspond. Such a profile for an individual user identity of an electronic social networking platform may include among other information information about the user identity s hometown current residence age gender relationship status educational background and or professional background. Additionally or alternatively the profile for an individual user identity of an electronic social networking platform may include records of various different interests of the user identity e.g. endorsements of non personal enterprises or other interests .

In some implementations a profile for a user identity may include one or more phone numbers electronic communication addresses e.g. electronic mail addresses Twitter feed address etc. or other identifiers. When a particular identifier is provided to the social networking platform the social networking platform can look up the user identity associated with that particular identifier. For example users may store their telephone numbers in their social networking profiles thereby associating their phone numbers with their user identities in the social networking platform. To obtain information about a user identity associated with a phone number an electronic device or a third party server system may provide the phone number to the social networking platform. The social networking platform searches among the user profiles for a user profile that includes the provided phone number. If a profile in the social networking platform includes the provided phone number the social networking platform may provide information about the user identity having the profile that includes the phone number.

In some implementations a third party server system rather than a social networking platform identifies a user identity or profile that corresponds to an identifier such as a phone number. For example a third party server may store cached data that has been extracted from one or more social networking platforms. The third party server searches among the cached data to identify a profile that includes or is otherwise associated with a particular phone number. The cached data may include cached user profiles or other data that associates identifiers for user identities e.g. usernames with corresponding phone numbers. In response to a request for data associated with a particular phone number the third party server finds the phone number in the cached data. The third party server may then provide cached social network data associated with the phone number if available. Alternatively the third party server may use an identifier for the user identity that is associated with the particular phone number to obtain social network data about the user identity data from a social networking platform and provide the obtained social network data.

In some electronic social networking platforms at least some of the profile information recorded for an individual user identity may be represented by connections between the user identity and other types of objects within the electronic social networking platforms. For example information about a user identity s hometown and or current residence may be represented as a connection between the user identity and one or more different location objects for example as described above in connection with . Additionally or alternatively information about a user identity s interests may be represented as connections between the user identity and one or more different interest objects e.g. non personal enterprise objects for example as also described above in connection with .

As illustrated in the communications system includes an electronic social networking platform that is accessible to a number of computing devices or other electronic devices including for example a laptop computer a tablet computer and a smartphone over a network . In addition the communications system also includes a computing system . The computing system may be external to the electronic social networking platform . As such the electronic social networking platform may be accessible to the computing system over the network . Additionally the computing system may be accessible to the electronic devices over the network .

The electronic social networking platform may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers configured to provide a service to one or more client devices e.g. electronic devices connected to electronic social networking platform over network . The one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features of an electronic social networking platform . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which the electronic social networking platform is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over the network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data. The electronic social networking platform also may provide an application programming interface API that enables other applications to interact with and extract data from the electronic social networking platform .

The electronic devices may be any of a number of different types of computing devices including for example mobile phones smartphones personal digital assistants laptop tablet and netbook computers and desktop computers including personal computers special purpose computers general purpose computers and or combinations of special purpose and general purpose computers. Each of the electronic devices typically may have internal or external storage components for storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. In particular the internal or external storage components for each of the electronic devices may store a client application for interfacing with the electronic social networking platform and or a client application for interfacing with the computing system . Additionally or alternatively the electronic devices may be configured to interface with the electronic social networking platform or the computing system without a specific client application using for example a web browser.

Each of the electronic devices also typically may include a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over the network . Each of the electronic devices also usually may include one or more communication devices for sending and receiving data. One example of such communications devices is a modem. Other examples include antennas transceivers communications cards and other network adapters capable of transmitting and receiving data over a network e.g. the network through a wired or wireless data pathway.

The network may provide direct or indirect communication links between the electronic social networking platform the electronic devices and the computing system . Examples of the network include the Internet the World Wide Web wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs including wireless LANs WLANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanisms for carrying data.

The computing system may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers . The one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features ascribed herein to the computing system . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which the computing system is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over the network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data.

The computing system may host an application that leverages electronic social networking platform . As such the computing system may be configured to extract and process data from electronic social networking platform . For example the computing system may be configured to exploit the API to extract data from the electronic social networking platform . Among other features the computing system may be configured to extract data about multiple different user identities social networks including i information identifying the members of each user identity s social network ii communications shared with each user identity as well as communications shared with each member of the user identity s social network iii information about locations where each user identity has checked in as well as information about locations where each member of the user identity s social network has checked in and iv contact information e.g. telephone numbers for each member of the user identity s social network. Information from the extracted data is used to select appropriate call handling options for received calls. As an example information about members of a caller s social network and information about members of a recipient s social network permits an electronic device or server system to determine whether there are common members and thus that the caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient. As another example information about locations where a caller has checked in can be used to select or modify a call handling option based on location as described further below.

In some implementations the electronic social networking platform may enable individual user identities to grant the computing system a token that defines permission levels related to data about the user identities social networks that computing system may access and extract from electronic social networking platform . For each individual user identity for which the computing system has a token the computing system may extract information about the user identity and the other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network. This information may include identifying information for the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network as well as demographic information for the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network e.g. hometown current residence age or date of birth gender relationship status etc. .

For each individual user identity for which the computing system has a token the computing system also may extract communications that have been shared with the user identity information about interest objects the user identity has endorsed information about locations where the user identity has checked in and or information about events to which the user identity has been invited. Additionally or alternatively for each individual user identity for which the computing system has a token the computing system also may extract communications that have been shared with members of the user identity s social network information about interest objects that members of the user identity s social network have endorsed and or information about locations where members of the user identity s social network have checked in. This information can be used to determine for example whether a caller is within a threshold distance of the call recipient or whether the caller has recently experienced a significant event either or both of which may be used to select or modify a call handling option as described further below. In some implementations after extracting data from the electronic social networking platform the computing system may store the extracted data in one more databases.

In the computing system may represent the server system that provides social network data to the electronic device of enabling the electronic device to make call handling decisions. The electronic devices may each perform the functions of the electronic devices of . That is any of the electronic devices may initiate calls or other communications as described for the electronic device . Further any of the electronic devices may receive calls and handle the calls based on social network data as described above for the electronic device .

The electronic device receives a call from a caller . The electronic device is associated with a call recipient. For instance the call can be an incoming phone call received at a phone associated with the call recipient.

The electronic device identifies an identifier associated with a calling device from which the call originated . For instance the electronic device may identify a phone number associated with a phone from which the call originated.

The electronic device uses the identifier to access social network data that is descriptive of a relationship of the caller to the call recipient in a social networking platform . For instance the electronic device may access from a storage unit of the electronic device social network data received prior to receiving the call from a social networking service that operates the social network the social network data being descriptive of the relationship of the caller to the call recipient. As another example after receiving the call and before using a call handling option to perform a call handling action associated with the call the electronic device may provide the identifier to a social networking service that operates the social network and receive over a network and from the social networking service that operates the social network the social network data. In addition or as an alternative the electronic device may provide the identifier to and receive social network data from a server system that is not part of a social networking service that operates the social network e.g. a server system for a third party service or application .

In some implementations the electronic device requests from each of multiple social network services that each operate a different social networking platform social network data that is indicative of a relationship of the caller to the call recipient. The electronic device receives social network data from each of the multiple different social network platforms. In some instances the electronic device receives social network data from a first social networking platform and a second social networking platform of the at least two of the multiple different social networking platforms where the data from the first social networking platform and the data from the second social networking platform are descriptive of a relationship between the caller and the call recipient. The electronic device determines a relationship between the caller and the call recipient based on the social network data received from the first social networking platform and based on the social network data received from the second social networking platform.

In some implementations the electronic device interfaces with server systems for various different social networking platforms to obtain social network data. In other implementations the electronic device obtains social network data from one or more third party server systems and the third party server systems obtain social network data from social networking platforms. As an example the electronic device requests social network data from a third party server system. The third party server system obtains social network data from each of multiple social networking platforms or accesses stored data from each of multiple social networking platforms. The electronic device receives from the third party server system aggregated social network data from the multiple different social networking platforms.

The electronic device selects a call handling option for the call based on the social network data that is descriptive of the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform . The electronic device selects the call handling option from among multiple different call handling options. The electronic device may select the call handling option from among a plurality of call handling options that are each associated prior to receiving the call with a different relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform. For instance the electronic device may select the call handling operation for the call from among a set of call handling operations that includes for example allowing the electronic device to produce an audible alert directing the call to voicemail without ringing and blocking the call.

In some implementations the electronic device selects the call handling option from among a set of call handling options designating different call handling actions. The different call handling actions may include any appropriate combination of two or more of 1 providing an alert for the call and permitting the call to be answered 2 without disconnecting the call suppressing an alert for the call 3 blocking or disconnecting the call 4 forwarding the call to another device 5 forwarding the call to voicemail 6 providing a missed call alert after the call terminates 7 suppressing a missed call alert for the call 8 adding the call to a call list 9 excluding the call from a call list 10 sending a message to the calling device 11 sending to the calling device data regarding a calendar associated with the call recipient and 12 sending a message to a third device that is different from the electronic device and the calling device.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data a relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform e.g. determines the relationship between their respective user identities in the social networking platform . The electronic device accesses call handling data that associates each of the multiple different call handling options with a different relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device compares the determined relationship to the call recipient with the accessed call handling data. Based on comparison results the electronic device selects a call handling option designated for calls received from callers having the determined relationship to the call recipient.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data a connection type of a connection between the caller and the call recipient in the social networking platform. The connection type is selected from a set of connection types including at least connection types of directly connected indirectly connected and unconnected. In response to determining the connection type of a connection between the caller and the call recipient in the social networking platform the electronic device selects as the call handling option for the call a call handling option that was associated with the determined connection type prior to receiving the call. The call handling option is selected from among a set of call handling options that includes at least i a first call handling option associated with the connection type of directly connected ii a second call handling option associated with the connection type of indirectly connected the second call handling option being different from the first call handling option and iii a third call handling option associated with the connection type of unconnected the third call handling option being different from the first call handling option and the second call handling option.

In some implementations the electronic device determines a connection type of indirectly connected when for example the caller has at least a threshold connection proximity to the call recipient in the social networking platform and is not directly connected to the call recipient. For instance if the threshold proximity is two connections the connection type for a caller that is directly connected to a user who is directly connected to the call recipient e.g. the caller is a friend of a friend of the call recipient is indirectly connected.

The caller can be unconnected to the call recipient when for example the caller does not have a minimum threshold connection proximity to the call recipient in the social networking platform e.g. the caller and call recipient are separated by more than a threshold number of intermediate connections .

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller is a friend of the call recipient. The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first call handling option that is designated for calls received from friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform and ii at least one other call handling option designated for calls received from callers that are not friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller is a friend of the call recipient the electronic device selects from among at least the first call handling option and the at least one other call handling option the first call handling option that is designated for calls received from friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform. For instance the electronic device may select to output an audible alert such as a ringtone when the caller is a friend whereas the electronic device would not output an audible alert e.g. would block the call or forward the call to voicemail if the caller was not connected to the call recipient in the social networking platform or otherwise was not a friend of the call recipient in the social networking platform.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that the caller is included in a predefined subset of friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first call handling option that is designated for calls received from friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform that are included in the predefined subset and ii at least one other call handling option designated for calls received from friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform that are not included in the predefined subset. In response to determining that the caller is included in the predefined subset of friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform the electronic device selects from among at least the first call handling option and the at least one other call handling option the first call handling option that is designated for calls received from friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform that are included in the predefined subset. For instance the electronic device may select to output an audible alert such as a ringtone when the caller is a friend within the subset whereas the electronic device would not output an audible alert if the caller was a friend that was not included in the subset.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller is a friend of a friend of the call recipient. The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first call handling option that is designated for calls received from friends of friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform and ii at least one other call handling option designated for calls received from callers having a relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform other than being a friend of a friend. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller is a friend of a friend of the call recipient the electronic device selects from among at least the first call handling option and the at least one other call handling option the first call handling option that is designated for calls received from friends of friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform. For instance the electronic device may select to output an audible alert such as a ringtone when the caller is a friend of a friend whereas the electronic device would not output an audible alert if the caller was connected to the call recipient only through a more remote social networking connection.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller is designated as a family member of the call recipient. The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first call handling option that is designated for calls received from callers designated as family members of the call recipient in the social networking platform and ii at least one other call handling option designated for calls received from callers not designated as family members of the call recipient in the social networking platform. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller is designated as a family member of the call recipient the electronic device selects from among at least the first call handling option and the at least one other call handling option the first call handling option that is designated for calls received from callers designated as family members of the call recipient in the social networking platform. For instance the electronic device may select to output an audible alert such as a ringtone when the caller is designated as a family member whereas the electronic device would not output an audible alert if the caller was not designated as a family member.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that the caller is not directly connected to the call recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device determines based on the social network data that the caller and the call recipient are both members of a group defined within the social networking platform e.g. an alumni group a social club or another organization or affiliation . The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first call handling option that is designated for calls received from members of the group defined within the social networking platform and ii at least one other call handling option designated for calls received from callers that are not members of the group defined within the social networking platform. In response to determining that the caller and the call recipient are both members of the group defined within the social networking platform the electronic device selects from among at least the first call handling option and the at least one other call handling option the first call handling option that is designated for calls received from members of the group defined within the social networking platform. For example the electronic device outputs an audible alert for the call because the caller is a member of the group when the electronic device otherwise would not output an audible alert for a call from a caller that is not directly connected to the call recipient.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller is not connected to the call recipient within a predetermined level of proximity. The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first call handling option that is designated for calls received from callers that are not connected to the call recipient in the social networking platform within the predetermined level of proximity and ii at least one other call handling option designated for calls received from callers that are directly connected to the call recipient in the social networking platform. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller is not connected to the call recipient within the predetermined level of proximity the electronic device selects from among at least the first call handling option and the at least one other call handling option the first call handling option that is designated for calls received from callers that are not connected to call recipient in the social networking platform within the predetermined level of proximity. For instance the electronic device suppresses an alert for the call because the caller is not connected within the predetermined level of proximity when the electronic device otherwise would output an alert for a call from a caller that is connected to the call recipient within the predetermined level of proximity.

In some implementations the electronic device receives prior to receiving the call first user input designating a first call handling option for calls received from callers having a first relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform. To select the call handling option for the call the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller has the first relationship to the call recipient. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller has the first relationship to the call recipient the electronic device selects the first call handling option.

In some implementations the electronic device receives prior to receiving the call first user input designating a first call handling option for calls received from callers having a first relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device also receives prior to receiving the call second user input designating a second call handling option for calls received from callers having a second relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform where the second call handling option is different from the first call handling option and the second relationship is different from the first relationship. To select the call handling option for the call the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller has the first relationship to the call recipient. In response to the determination the electronic device selects the first call handling option.

In some implementations the electronic device receives prior to receiving the call first user input designating i a first call handling option for calls received from callers having a first relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform and ii a range of time during which the first call handling option should be used for calls received from callers having the first relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device stores at the electronic device and prior to receiving the call data identifying the first call handling option and the designated range of time for example as a user defined call handling rule. To select the call handling option for the call the electronic device accesses after receiving the call the data stored at the electronic device that identifies the first call handling option and the designated range of time. The electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller has the first relationship to the call recipient. The electronic device identifies a time of the call e.g. a time when the call was received and determines that the identified time of the call is within the designated range of time. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller has the first relationship to the call recipient and that the identified time of the call is within the designated range of time selecting the first call handling option.

In an example the electronic device receives a second call from a second caller. The electronic device obtains a second identifier associated with a second calling device from which the second call originated. The electronic device uses the second identifier to access second social network data that is descriptive of a relationship of the second caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform. Based on the second social network data the electronic device determines that the second caller has the first relationship to the call recipient. The electronic device identifies a time of the second call and determines that the time of the second call is not within the designated range of time. In response to determining that the time of the second call is not within the designated range of time the electronic device selects a second call handling option that is different from the first call handling option and uses the second call handling option to perform a call handling action for the second call.

In some implementations the electronic device selects the call handling option for the call based on a location associated with the caller. For instance the electronic device may identify based on the social network data a first location associated with the caller. The first location may be a location of the caller at a time of the call or an estimate of the location of the caller at the time of the call e.g. a recent or last known location of the caller a likely location of the caller an approximate location of the caller etc. . The electronic device identifies a second location associated with the call recipient. The second location may be a location of the call recipient at the time of the call or an estimate of the location of the recipient at the time of the call. The electronic device determines a distance between the first location and the second location. The electronic device accesses a threshold distance and compares the distance between the first location and the second location to the threshold distance. Based on comparison results the electronic device determines that the distance between the first location and the second location are within the threshold distance. The electronic device selects the call handling option for the call based on determining that the first location and the second location are within the threshold distance.

In some implementations to select the call handling option for the call based on determining that the first location and the second location are within the threshold distance the electronic device determines based on the social network data a relationship of the caller to the call recipient. The electronic device identifies a first call handling option designated for calls received from callers having the determined relationship to the call recipient. The electronic device modifies the first call handling option in response to determining that the first location and the second location are within the threshold distance. The electronic device selects the modified call handling option as the call handling option for the call.

A call may be of more interest to the recipient when the caller is located nearby. Thus in some implementations a selected call handling option may modified to provide greater notification to the recipient when the caller is determined to be located within the predetermined distance. For example a call that would otherwise have been blocked or sent directly to voicemail may be allowed to ring or otherwise reach the call recipient.

In some implementations the use of location information to select the call handling option for the call is conditioned on the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform. For instance the electronic device selects the call handling option based on a location of the caller in response to determining based on the social network that in the social networking platform the caller has a particular relationship with the call recipient or that the caller has one of a predefined set of relationships with the call recipient. However if the caller does not have the particular relationship or a relationship of the predefined set of relationships then location information is not used to select a call handling option.

As an example in some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller is a friend of the call recipient. In response to determining that the caller is a friend of the call recipient in the social networking platform the electronic device selects the call handling option based on the location of the caller. The electronic device may receive a second call from a second caller and determine that the second caller is not a friend of the call recipient. In response to determining that the second caller is not a friend of the call recipient the electronic device selects the call handling option for the second call without using a location of the second caller.

In some implementations the electronic device accesses social network data that enables determination of one or more events experienced by the caller. The electronic device may select the call handling option based on one or more events experienced by the caller. For instance the electronic device determines based on the social network data a relationship of the caller to the call recipient. The electronic device also determines based on the social network data that the caller has experienced an event. The electronic device identifies a first call handling option designated for calls received from callers that have experienced the event. The call handling option is different from a second call handling option that is designated for calls received from callers having the determined relationship to the call recipient that have not experienced the event. The electronic device selects the first call handling option as the call handling option for the call.

In some implementations the electronic device selects call handling options based on events that the caller has experienced only when the caller has a particular relationship to the call recipient e.g. when the caller is a friend or when the caller is directly connected to the call recipient in the social networking platform . In some implementations the electronic device selects call handling options based on events that the caller has experienced only when the events have occurred within a predetermined window of time e.g. within five days of the call or within a month of the call .

The electronic device uses the selected call handling option to perform a call handling action for the call . The call handling action includes one or more operations performed by the electronic device to handle the call. For instance in accordance with the selected call handling option the electronic device may provide an alert for the call and permit the call to be answered without disconnecting the call suppress an alert for the call block or disconnect the call forward the call to another device forward the call to voicemail provide a missed call alert after the call terminates suppress a missed call alert for the call add the call to a call list exclude the call from a call list send a message to the calling device send to the calling device data regarding a calendar associated with the call recipient or send a message to a third device that is different from the electronic device and the calling device.

In some implementations the user interface is a rendered web page or an interface of an application running on the electronic device. Call handling rules defined using the user interface can be used to select call handling options for calls received by the electronic device that provides the user interface and or other electronic devices. For example a user may set call handling rules using one electronic device and the call handling rules may be transmitted to one or more different electronic devices.

The user interface includes elements that identify different call handling actions to allow a call send a call to voicemail to forward a call or block a call respectively. By interacting with the elements a user can select a call handling action that as described below will be performed for future calls that satisfy criteria specified by the user. In some implementations a user may select multiple call handling actions to perform for a single call.

The user interface includes elements that identify sets of users defined within the social networking platform. The different sets of users can be defined by different relationship types in the social networking platform or by classifications based on connections within the social networking platform. For example in each of the elements identifies a different set of users respectively friends friends of friends co workers family members friends in a subset of the user s friends and unknown users . By interacting with one or more of the elements the user can select a set of users. The selected set of users can include combinations of the sets of users shown such as a group including friends and family.

The user interface includes controls that enable the user to select a range of times during which the call handling rule is applicable. The control permits the user to select days of the week e.g. Monday Tuesday Wednesday etc. or weekend days or weekdays and the control permits the user to select a range of time within the selected day s . The user interface may include controls to set any appropriate range of time.

After a user selects a call handling action a set of callers for which the alert applies and a range of time the user can interact with a button or other control to create a new call handling rule. After setting the rule the electronic device will perform the specified call handling action s each time a call meeting the criteria of the rule is received that is when the call is from a caller having the specified relationship to the user and the call is received during the specified range of time.

In some implementations the user interface permits the user to set rules that designate responses to communication events other than receipt of an incoming call for example a call being missed or receipt of a text message. Similar techniques described throughout this disclosure for handling calls may be applied to other types of communications.

In the illustrated example sets of users defined by relationships include friends friends of friends family a subset of the friends e.g. a set of friends who are also designated as poker players unknown callers e.g. users that are more distant than a friend of a friend and co workers

In addition the relationships include users having a particular relationship in a particular social network e.g. Facebook friends . In some implementations a particular relationship status such as friend status can be associated with a different call handling action for callers connected to the recipient in different social networking platforms. For example a first call handling action may be performed for calls from friends in a first social networking platform and a second different call handling action may be provided for calls from friends in a second different social networking platform e.g. a social networking platform operated independently from the first social networking platform .

In some social networking platforms groups are defined such that users may be included in or affiliated with the group without being directly connected to each other. The alumni group and the professional organization are examples of relationships that reflect membership in such groups. Other relationships and thus other sets of potential callers also may be defined.

Although the examples of call handling rules shown in the table specify positive criteria for times and relationships these criteria can also be defined by exclusion. For example an electronic device can use a call handling rule that designates call handling actions for calls from all callers except for those having particular social networking characteristics and for calls received at any time except during an excluded period of time.

The electronic device determines a relationship of a caller to a call recipient based on social network data . As described above the electronic device may store before the call is received social network data that is descriptive of the relationship or the electronic device may obtain social network data that is descriptive of the relationship over a network in response to the call or another communication event.

The electronic device determines that the caller is a friend of the call recipient in the social networking platform . In some implementations the use of location information is conditioned on the relationship of the caller to the recipient in the social networking platform. For example in some implementations the electronic device selects call handling options based on the location of a caller only when the caller is determined to have a particular relationship to the recipient within a social networking platform such as when the caller is a friend of the recipient within a social networking platform. In this example when the caller is determined to be a friend within a social networking platform the electronic device performs the remaining operations of the process but the electronic device performs different operations if the caller is not determined to be a friend of the recipient.

The electronic device identifies a first call handling option designated for calls received from callers having the determined relationship to the call recipient . For example the electronic device can identify the call handling option corresponding to the determined relationship using one of the call handling options illustrated in or .

The electronic device identifies a location associated with the caller based on the social network data . For example the electronic device identifies a check in location such as the most recent check in location for the caller that indicates a place that the caller has visited. The electronic device may identify the location using other types of social network data that associates the caller with a location such as a social networking profile for the caller status indications for the caller tags or labels for photographs shared in the social networking platform or posts or other submissions from any user to name a few examples. The identified location can be a current location of the caller or a recent location of the caller e.g. a location of the caller at a time within a threshold time period . In some implementations the location is obtained by the recipient after the caller has permitted the location to be shared e.g. by making the location public in a public post or check in or by opting in to authorize sharing of location information .

The electronic device determines that the location associated with the caller is within a threshold distance of the call recipient . The electronic device determines a location associated with the call recipient e.g. a current location of the electronic device . For example the electronic device determines a location associated with the recipient using a Global Positioning System GPS receiver module triangulation information received from nearby devices recent user input from the recipient or social network data about the recipient e.g. the call recipient s social networking profile posts status indications etc. . The electronic device can then calculate a distance between the location associated with the caller and the location associated with the call recipient and compare the distance to a threshold distance e.g. a threshold distance of 5 miles 25 miles 100 miles etc. .

In response to determining that the location associated with the caller is within a threshold distance of the location associated with the call recipient the electronic device modifies the first call handling option . As an example the electronic device adds an additional action to the first call handling option such as providing a call notification to an additional device where the first call handling option did not designate the notification. As another example the electronic device overrides the first call handling action by adding the output of a ringtone and a time period for the recipient to answer although the first call handling option designates that the call should be sent straight to voicemail. As another example the electronic device replaces the first call handling option with one or more actions designated for calls received from nearby callers.

The electronic device selects the modified call handling option as the call handling option for the call . For instance rather than performing a call handling action defined by the first call handling option the electronic device selects the modified call handling option and performs a call handling action defined by the modified call handling option. By contrast in instances when the caller is not determined to be within the threshold distance of the call recipient the electronic device selects the first call handling option which corresponds to the caller s relationship to the call recipient as the call handling option for the call.

In some implementations location information is used to select a call handling option rather than modify an already selected call handling option. Further while examples are provided showing call handling options that are selected based on both a relationship of the caller and geographic proximity of the caller the techniques described above can be used to select call handling options based on geographic proximity only. For example a particular call handling option can be selected for calls from any caller determined to be within a predetermined distance of the call recipient regardless of the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform.

In the illustrated example the electronic device modifies the call handling option based on geographic proximity of the caller to the recipient . In the example of the electronic device modifies call handling options only when the caller is a friend. Because the caller is a friend or family member of the recipient the electronic device determines whether the location of the caller is such that the call handling option for the call should be modified to account for geographic proximity of the caller .

The electronic device obtains a location associated with the caller using social network data . The electronic device determines based on the social network data that the caller is in Los Angeles Calif. The electronic device also determines that the recipient is in Los Angeles Calif. or is otherwise within a threshold distance of the caller . In response the electronic device modifies the selected call handling option to include output of a ringtone as a notification where the electronic device otherwise would not have output an alert. According to the modified call handling option the electronic device outputs the ringtone . As a result the recipient is informed of the call from the nearby caller where the recipient would not have been informed of the call if the caller had not been located within the predetermined distance.

The call handling rules each specify an associated distance threshold which permits the distance threshold for each call handling rule to be different. The call handling rules also specify a modification to the respective call handling options that occur when the distance threshold is satisfied. For instance the modification designates that an electronic device provides an audible alert any time that a call is received from a friend located within 25 miles of the call recipient. This modifies the typical call handling option for calls from friends which limits the times that alerts are provided. The modification designates that when an electronic device receives a call from a caller who is designated as a family member in a social network and the caller is located within 100 miles of the call recipient the electronic device sends a text message to a designated number. The text message is sent in addition to providing an audible alert which is the typical call handling option for calls from family members.

The other call handling rules do not specify that any modification should occur based on distance. Accordingly these call handling rules indicate that the same call handling option should be selected regardless of geographic proximity of the caller and the recipient.

Referring to in some implementations call handling options are selected or modified based on other social network data in addition to or instead of data indicative of the social networking relationship of the caller and the recipient and the geographic proximity of the caller to the recipient. Just as a call handling option may be selected based on geographic proximity a call handling option may additionally or alternatively be indicative of for example an event in the caller s life a status change in a caller s social networking profile or other information derived from social network data.

In some implementations a server system provides information about significant events or attributes of the caller that are reflected in the social networking platform. In these implementations a server system can analyze social network content to identify a significant event or change in status associated with the caller. For example the server system may infer based on a caller s activity within a social networking platform e.g. message posts within the social networking platform by the caller and or other users that various events have occurred such as 1 positive romantic relationship developments e.g. new boyfriend or girlfriend engagement marriage etc. 2 negative romantic relationship developments e.g. breakup divorce etc. 3 birth of new child 4 acquisition of a new pet 5 illness 6 upcoming or recent trip or vacation 7 starting a new job 8 moving to a new city 9 obtaining a new home and 10 obtaining a new vehicle.

An electronic device can use information that the server system infers about events associated with the caller e.g. changes in status or other events to select or modify a call handling option for a call from the caller. For example when call handling rules dictate that a call be sent directly to voicemail an electronic device can instead provide an audible alert and opportunity to answer when information from the server system indicates that the caller has experienced one of a predetermined set of events. As an example at a time when an electronic device would send calls to voicemail the electronic device can provide an alert for a call from a friend that has had a romantic relationship development or experienced another significant event within a threshold period of time of the call. In a similar manner call handling options or modifications of call handling options can be associated with any of the events described above or other events inferred from social network data.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a touchscreen and or a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

