---

title: Restricting access of a portable communication device to confidential data or applications via a remote network based on event triggers generated by the portable communication device
abstract: Systems and methods disclosed herein relate to the protection of a plurality of protected personas on a protected network that may be isolated from a telecommunication service provider's network that supports a portable electronic device. The plurality of personas may be generated by the owners and/or administrators of the network on which the personas reside. Activating a persona on a device, whether that device is owned and maintained by the business or businesses affiliated with the protected network, enables access to a plurality of data on the business's network and restricts access to at least some of the capabilities and functionality of the device available under the original persona. Data created or modified while the protected persona is activated on the device may not be accessed while the original persona is active and may be uploaded dynamically or manually to the protected network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374363&OS=09374363&RS=09374363
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09374363
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
A portable electronic device such as a tablet laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA mobile phone or multi functional portable electronic device may comprise a user interface. The user interface may present icons for selection that provide access to local and network applications data and systems. The portable electronic device may also comprise audio video or other recording technology that a user of the device may be able to access through either the user interface and or physical components of the device such as volume control locking features and power features. Due to the increasing processing power of portable electronic devices these devices may be used in personal and professional capacities by the device owners.

In an embodiment a method of protecting information on a hospital network comprising activating by an application on a portable electronic device in response to a first trigger a hospital persona accessible through a hospital network wherein the first trigger comprises at least one of a manual or a dynamic trigger wherein activating the hospital persona comprises deactivating access to an original persona on the portable electronic device. The embodiment further comprising wherein the hospital persona comprises a first plurality of data a first plurality of applications and a plurality of access rights to at least one of the hospital network and a first plurality of software hardware and firmware on the portable electronic device and accessing by the portable electronic device a plurality of data associated with the hospital persona wherein accessing the plurality of data comprises creating or modifying the data. The embodiment further comprising deactivating by the application in response to a second trigger comprising at least one of the manual or the dynamic trigger at least a portion of the plurality of data associated with the hospital persona wherein the portion of the plurality of data was one of created or modified while the hospital persona was activating on the portable electronic device wherein deactivating comprises determining if the second trigger is the manual trigger or the dynamic trigger activating in response to a determination that the second trigger is the manual trigger at least the portion of the plurality of data to the hospital network activating in response to the determination that the second trigger is the dynamic trigger at least the portion of the plurality of data to a trusted security zone on the portable electronic device reactivating in response to the second trigger the original persona on the portable electronic device.

In an embodiment a system for protecting access to information on a hospital network comprising a plurality of personas accessible through a hospital network a portable electronic device on a telecommunications service provider network comprising an application and an original persona. The embodiment further comprising wherein the original persona is not a persona of the plurality of the personas on the hospital network wherein each persona of the plurality of personas on the hospital network comprises a first plurality of data a first plurality of applications and a first plurality of access rights to the hospital network and at least one of software hardware and firmware on the portable electronic device and wherein the original persona comprises a second plurality of data a second plurality of applications and a second plurality of access rights to at least one of software hardware and firmware on the portable electronic device and the telecommunications service provider network. The embodiment further comprising wherein the application activates in response to a first trigger a first hospital persona of the plurality of personas wherein the first trigger is one of a manual trigger or a dynamic trigger and wherein activating the first hospital persona deactivates access to the original persona deactivates in response to a second trigger the first hospital persona and activates a second hospital persona and wherein the second trigger is one of the manual trigger or the dynamic trigger and deactivates in response to a third trigger the second hospital persona and reactivates the first hospital persona or reactivates the original persona wherein the third trigger is one of the manual trigger or the dynamic trigger.

In an alternate embodiment a method of protecting information a network comprising activating by the application on a portable electronic device in response to a trigger a first persona of a plurality of personas wherein the trigger comprises at least one of a manual or a dynamic trigger wherein the portable electronic device comprises an original persona wherein activating the first persona deactivates access to the original persona wherein the original persona is not a persona of the plurality of personas wherein each persona of the plurality of personas and the original persona comprise a first plurality of data a first plurality of applications and a first plurality of access rights to the telecommunications service provider network and a plurality of software hardware and firmware on the portable electronic device and wherein the original persona comprises a second plurality of data a second plurality of applications and a second plurality of access rights to at least one of software hardware and firmware on the portable electronic device and the telecommunications service provider network. The embodiment further comprising activating by the application at least a portion of the first persona to at least one of a remote network and a trusted security zone in response to deactivating the second persona wherein the remote network is not the network that supports the original persona and reactivating the original persona on the portable electronic device.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Businesses including hospitals manufacturing environments finance centers and research development centers may have an interest in protecting confidential data and the systems on which that data is generated and stored. As such these businesses may want to restrict access that a portable communication device has to confidential data or applications. This may be accomplished by using a remote network where the restriction is based on event triggers generated by the portable communication device. Hospitals in particular may have a variety of confidential information concerning patients and prescription inventory that the hospital may not want accessed by unauthorized individuals and or under uncontrolled conditions. In some cases the information that the hospital or other business seeks to protect may be protected by state and or federal law. For example the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 HIPAA was enacted to provide federal protections for personal health information and provide patients a plurality of rights associated with those protections. Among other provisions HIPAA mandates the protection of patient data and appropriate authorization to access that data. Protected data in some cases may only be accessed by an authorized party such as an employee or vendor of the hospital or a relative of the patient who has the appropriate access authorization given by a patient or other competent party. Portable electronic devices capable of accessing this sort of information with or without authorization may be owned by hospital employees visitors patients and vendors. The hospital or other business may want people in particular its authorized employees to be able to access hospital information and resources on portable electronic devices. Portable electronic devices such as tablets notebooks mobile phones laptops and portable digital assistants PDA may be provided by the hospital to all or some of its employees. In that scenario the hospital may incur the cost of the device plus the cost of the data voice and other support of services used on the device.

One alternative to this arrangement may be that employees as well as vendors patients and visitors can bring their own devices to the hospital and use those devices to conduct hospital related business. However these personal devices may not have adequate protection in order to isolate the hospital s data to prevent accidental or deliberate unauthorized transmission of confidential information by the user or intentional hacking of the device. As such there remains a need in the art for methods and systems of isolating and protecting a plurality of personas for example hospital personas related to different departments or employee roles in the hospital. In another example a manufacturer may want to protect trade secrets as well as employee and client or vendor records and may use a similar method. For visitors to or employees of a research or manufacturing facility this may mean that once they enter the facility with their personal portable electronic device features that could be used to capture and misappropriate information such as audio video camera hard lines into ports and internet access may be disabled. In an embodiment this protection of confidential data may be accomplished by having shared devices within a business such as a hospital that are used by employees on different shifts which may reduce the cost of providing devices for the employees to use during their shifts. In an embodiment even if the hospital provides its own devices and has a policy discouraging or prohibiting the use or presence of personal devices on premises users may still do just that. In that case the methods described herein may be used simultaneously that is an employee owned device may have its functionality limited or disabled while in the hospital even if the employee or patient visitor or vendor is using a hospital owned device while at work instead of their personal device.

The plurality of protected personas discussed herein may be generated by a business including its employees such as healthcare and IT professionals or by a third party such as a consulting group. A persona may define access to a plurality of information on a remote network other than the telecommunication service provider s network that supports the device either as a primary provider or as a roaming provider. Each persona of the plurality of hospital personas and the original persona comprises a plurality of data a plurality of applications and a plurality of access rights to at least one of software hardware and firmware on the portable electronic device and the telecommunications service provider network. For example an orthopedic surgery persona may comprise data regarding scheduled surgeries patient post operative results patient pre operative scans and tests implant inventory instrument inventory monitoring inventory and access to information regarding what other hospital resources both human and machine are scheduled for the scheduled surgeries. In another example a patient persona in a children s ward may provide access to a plurality of games electronic coloring books fiction and non fiction books children s programming and interactive surveys that may be used by clinicians to determine the location and severity of pain and other ailments that someone in a pediatric wing may otherwise have trouble communicating. In an embodiment this type of diagnostic information may be sent from the patient s device to another device on the hospital network or may be otherwise stored in the patient s file.

In an embodiment a user of a portable electronic device enters a hospital with their personal device that comprises a personal persona which may also be referred to as an original persona in this embodiment. The original persona may be a persona that is the factory default persona or may be a persona that has been modified or created by the user or a third party. The user may be a patient hospital employee vendor visitor or other party. The personal persona may provide or define access to a plurality of applications as well as access to hardware software firmware and other networks and systems depending upon the type and configuration of the personal device. A hospital persona may be caused to be activated when an application on the portable electronic device receives a first trigger that indicates that the portable electronic device is within a predetermined proximity of a signal. In some embodiments this activation may also be referred to as the loading of a hospital persona.

In an embodiment the triggering may be in response to and the hospital persona session established based on a time and location limited token associated with the device. This token may be loaded on to the device so that the device can access the hospital s network when the application receives the trigger discussed above. The token may be a permanent access token or a limited access token such as a temporary token. A temporary token may be desired when a visitor or a vendor will be in the hospital for a limited amount of time. For example if a medical device sales representative is on site to watch a series of surgeries over a period of a few days or a week a limited access token may be provided to the device of that sales representative or on a hospital supported and owned device. In another example a device user regardless of whether that device is owned by the user or by the hospital may only be allowed limited access to a generic hospital persona or a specific hospital persona. In that example the token on the device used by that limited access party may be a limited access token. In some embodiments the application on the portable electronic device or on the hospital remote network may check to see if the token on the device is still active. This check may be done on a periodic or dynamic basis or manually. If the token is determined to be inactive or nonexistent the device s access to the hospital network may be terminated for example by deactivating any active hospital persona.

In an embodiment the first trigger that activates a hospital persona may be one of a manual log in or a dynamic process wherein the portable device receives a signal for example a Wi Fi signal that triggers the activation of the hospital persona. In the case of a manual log in as the first trigger the log in may be due to a push that occurs in response to the device sensing a signal or in response to the time and location limited token discussed above. This push may present the user of the device with the option to log into the hospital network once logged in to the hospital network even if they are logged in as a generic profile user without access to confidential information access to the original persona may be restricted while the hospital persona is active.

In an embodiment this hospital persona may be one of a plurality of hospital personas on a hospital network which may be a generic hospital persona that is not specific to a department or a department specific persona. A generic hospital persona may provide information for visitors such as maps hours services a hospital directory and other non confidential information. This generic hospital persona may be made optional or mandatory because of concerns that parties who are not employees or vendors of the hospital may witness capture and distribute confidential information accidentally or intentionally and without authorization. In an embodiment the generic hospital persona may also comprise games and reading materials for example if the device is intended for use in a children s hospital or other setting where it may be appropriate to provide a device to patients or other visitors who may spend extended periods of time in the hospital. The generic hospital persona may in some embodiments allow a user to log in to other departments applications and or systems on the hospital network. In some embodiments the generic hospital persona may comprise confidential information and there may be a separate authorization used to access that portion of the generic hospital persona. In an embodiment the first hospital persona may be activated on a device because of a token or agent that is pre loaded on to the device or the first hospital persona may be activated to every device that either logs in or receives a signal as described above. This activation may be an automatic switching to the hospital persona or may be received as a prompt for the device user to log in to the hospital persona. This may be because the hospital does not want to have devices on its premises that have active access to camera audio internet or other features that may compromise intentionally or unintentionally patient or other confidentiality or that may distract other patients and employees in the hospital or interfere with hospital equipment or overall operations.

Activating this first hospital persona regardless of whether it is generic or department specific restricts access to the personal original persona and all hardware firmware and software accessible while the personal persona is active. This restriction may also be referred to as partially or completely blocking access to different features that are accessible when the first persona is active. This may mean that features such as camera audio the web gateway and other software hardware and firmware that could be used to capture and or transmit confidential information in an unauthorized manner are disabled. In some embodiments the first hospital persona may provide access to patient information surgery schedules outpatient schedules and the ability to further log in or otherwise request information from systems and applications accessed through the generic hospital persona. While the first hospital persona is activated on the device the user may create delete or otherwise modify data on the hospital s network that can be accessed from the hospital persona which cannot be accessed when the personal original persona is enabled. The first hospital persona may remain active on the portable device until it is unloaded in response to a second trigger. The second trigger may comprise a manual log out by the user or may be based upon the portable device no longer receiving a signal for example the Wi Fi signal that led to activating the first hospital persona. The signal may no longer be received in one example because that device has moved out of a location or out of a predetermined proximity of a location where the signal is available. In one example a portable electronic device may have the first hospital persona activated in response to a first dynamic trigger and may be able to access this first hospital persona within the physical boundaries of the hospital i.e. within the walls of the hospital. The device may also be able to access the first hospital persona in courtyards of the hospital in restaurants or shops adjacent to and or affiliated with the hospital and in the parking lot or lots associated with or within a predetermined radius and or perimeter around the hospital which may be referred to as the predetermined area. However once the device leaves this area the first hospital persona would be deactivated as discussed below.

Once the user either logs out manually or leaves the predetermined area of the first trigger the second trigger may remove the generic hospital persona and restore access to the personal persona. Restoring access to the personal persona which may also be referred to as reactivating the personal persona may also restore access to restricted hardware software and firmware including web browsers cameras audio other physical ports and sensors infrared Bluetooth etc. Prior to the portable electronic device receiving the second trigger while the first hospital persona is activated on the device a plurality of data on the hospital network and accessed applications and systems associated with the first hospital persona may be created deleted or otherwise modified. The data that may be created and or modified may concern patient records machine maintenance and medical supplies and delivery schedules. The plurality of data may be uploaded dynamically at predetermined intervals or manually to a server on the hospital network. It may be preferable to capture any created or modified data prior to deactivating the persona under which the data was accessed created modified. A portion of data that is accessed created modified while a particular hospital persona is active may be temporarily stored in the trusted security zone. For example a device is used during a twelve hour shift where a number of patients are treated. If the data that is accessed modified or created is uploaded and the respective access to that data logged every thirty minutes some of the data may not be uploaded to the hospital network before the shift ends. In that example the data would remain in the trusted security zone on the device until any hospital persona is loaded at which point the data is uploaded to the hospital network. Alternatively the data may be accessed by an authorized party for example in IT at the hospital. In an embodiment if the first hospital persona is logged out manually any modifications made may be uploaded to a server on the hospital network. In an alternate embodiment if the first hospital persona is deactivated because the signal that triggered the activation of the first hospital persona is no longer received by the portable electronic device the modified data may be loaded to a trusted security zone on the device that may not be accessed when the personal persona is loaded.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust and a secure execution environment for applications and secures access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. For more details on establishing trusted end to end communication links relying on hardware assisted security see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

In that embodiment wherein a trusted security zone is used the information created and or modified may remain on the device until the first hospital persona or any hospital persona from the plurality of hospital personas is reactivated at which point it may be automatically loaded to the server on the hospital network. Alternatively an IT professional from the hospital may access the information on the device and upload it manually to the server. In another embodiment if the first hospital persona is logged out because the signal that triggered activation of the first hospital persona is no longer received by the operating system or application on the device a portion of the data modified while the first hospital persona was activated may have been dynamically or manually uploaded to the server on the hospital network and a portion of the data modified may be stored in the trusted security zone on the device. Information stored in the trusted security zone may be uploaded to the hospital s network automatically the next time that the portable electronic device has a hospital persona activated regardless of whether the hospital persona activated is the same as the first hospital persona.

In an alternate embodiment a user may begin with a device owned and or maintained by the hospital. This portable electronic device may be assigned to a particular party employee role department or may be for general use as needed by employees and visitors. The portable electronic device may comprise a generic hospital persona which also may be referred to as the original persona. Upon entering a department for example the cosmetic surgery department a first trigger that may be a manual log on or a dynamic trigger as discussed above may activate the cosmetic surgery persona on the device and access to the generic hospital persona may be restricted. If the portable electronic device then migrates to another department for example orthopedics the cosmetic surgery persona may be unloaded and an orthopedics persona that is also a persona of the plurality of hospital personas may be activated in response to a second trigger that may be similar to the first trigger discussed above. A device may migrate because an employee vendor or other visitor is physically located in another department or because the device is re appropriated to a new department.

In an embodiment the orthopedics persona may provide access to a plurality of applications and other systems access that may overlap in part with the cosmetic surgery persona or the accessible areas may be completely different from those associated with the cosmetic surgery persona. The data modified during the period when either the cosmetic surgery persona or the orthopedics persona is activated may be stored in a trusted security zone or on the hospital network in a fashion similar to what is described above and may be dependent upon how the persona is deactivated. In an embodiment when the orthopedics persona is deactivated in response to one of a manual or an automatic trigger either the cosmetic surgery persona or the generic hospital persona may be activated and or have access restored. When a persona is restored access is restored to the applications systems and data on the hospital network and data stored in the trusted security zone on the portable electronic device that may not have been uploaded when the previous hospital persona was active may be uploaded to the hospital network without user interaction or awareness.

In an embodiment confidential or sensitive data that is accessed created or modified while the persona is active may be stored on the mobile device temporarily. This access as well as the storage may be done according to a plurality of rules and or policies as well as logic associated with the persona . The plurality of rules and or policies and logic may comprise information about what information may be accessed how it may be accessed if how it may be modified and when this access and or modification can occur. The mobile device may comprise an application and be configured in a manner similar to what is described below with respect to . In one example a private persona may comprise a plurality of applications systems access and settings that a user of the mobile device may access when the private persona is activated. A hospital persona may comprise applications systems and access to a plurality of data on the hospital network some of which is confidential that cannot be accessed when the private persona is activated.

A network may be the network of a telecommunications service provider that provides voice and or data services to the mobile device . The network may comprise one or more public communication networks one or more private networks and or a combination thereof. The system may further comprise a base transceiver station BTS in communication with the wireless network in communication that is also in communication with a wireless access point . The network may also be in communication with a server computer and a data store . A remote network for example a hospital s network may not be in communication with the network but may communicate with the mobile device to activate and deactivate a plurality of virtual machines that may be similar to virtual machine . Alternatively the network may be communicatively coupled to the remote network via security gateways in the remote network that restrict communication traffic both into and out of the remote network . The remote network may comprise a wireless network access node and a data store . The data store may comprise a plurality of personas for example hospital personas. Each hospital persona may be associated with at least one of a hospital department a role within a hospital or a combination of department and role. The hospital departments may comprise an emergency department radiology cosmetic surgery orthopedics dermatology pediatrics purchasing receiving maintenance and facilities administration which may also be a role as well as other departments such as surgical operating room post operative intensive care neo natal neo natal intensive care ambulatory triage neurosurgery neuroscience and combinations thereof. The hospital roles may comprise doctors medical students interns residents fellows support staff nursing physician s assistants administrative staff board chief level employees and other roles as appropriate that may be part time full time contract based or volunteer.

The persona s activated on a user s device may depend on the location of the device within the hospital the role of the user and or of the device in the hospital or combinations thereof. For example the information seen by a doctor in an operating room or theater may not be the same information seen by a vendor who is in the operating room to watch a surgery even though both devices in the possession of the doctor and the vendor have activated an operating room persona. Activation of the hospital persona may be accomplished by a log in or in some embodiments by an association of a device identifier with a role of the owner or user of that device by the hospital network. In some embodiments the remote network may connect to the telecommunication service provider s network by a secure connection comprising firewalls and other protections to prevent unauthorized access to confidential and other protected hospital information. In some embodiments these protections may restrict or disable the ability of a user to send data out from remote network to the telecommunications service provider s network and may conversely prevent receiving data sent from the network when the persona in communication with the remote network is active on the mobile device .

In an embodiment the mobile device also comprises an operating system not pictured and is owned and or used by an individual user visiting the hospital. The individual user may be a doctor nurse patient visitor vendor support staff or administrator. The application on the mobile device may receive a signal from the wireless access point upon coming within a pre determined proximity of the hospital or may log in to the hospital network manually with the proper authorization. Either event may be referred to as a first trigger and may cause a persona to activate on the mobile device . The other persona may comprise access to a plurality of systems and applications on the remote network which may store data including confidential data in a data store . This data may be accessed modified created or deleted while the other persona is activated on the mobile device . In addition to providing access to confidential data on the hospital network activating the persona on the mobile device may restrict access to applications systems hardware firmware and other software on the mobile device that could be accessed while the an original persona not pictured was activated.

In an embodiment when access is restricted or disabled the user of the device may not be able to access the telecommunications service provider s network . In addition access to applications systems and physical ports of the mobile device may be limited. In one example the camera function may be restricted but the audio port may remain active when the other persona is active and the personal persona is deactivated. Thus original persona is deactivated while the other persona is activated on the device. The data from the data store that is used created and or modified while the persona is activated on the mobile device may be stored on the remote network or in a trusted security zone not pictured on the mobile device or on a combination of both. In one example the data associated with the other persona that is used created modified or otherwise accessed while the other persona is activated on the mobile device is backed up and or loaded on the remote network . This upload may occur dynamically manually or in response to a predetermined amount of time passing a predetermined amount of data being accessed or modified or by a combination of methods. If a user manually logs out of the hospital persona all of the data may be uploaded to the remote network .

If a user is logged out of the persona because of a trigger wherein the wireless signal for the persona is no longer received by the mobile device a portion of the data may be stored in a trusted security zone on the mobile device . This portion of the data may be uploaded automatically the next time the persona or any persona of the plurality of personas of the remote network is activated on the mobile device or may be manually uploaded by an IT administrator of the hospital if the device is given to the IT administrator or another party authorized to transfer data to the remote network . When the persona is unloaded whether by manual or automatic trigger the private persona may be restored to the mobile device which may reestablish access to the applications systems hardware software and firmware associated with the private persona on the mobile device . In an alternate embodiment the mobile device may be owned by the hospital and the private persona may be a generic hospital profile. This embodiment is discussed below in .

Access records that reflect the date and time that various records were viewed and or modified in addition to the device that accessed the data may also be stored on the remote network in addition to any data created or modified while a hospital persona is active based on in house policies or governing law. The access records and data created or modified may be saved dynamically by manual trigger based on a predetermined amount of data being modified or accessed or based on a predetermined amount of time spent in the hospital personal or combinations thereof. At block the first hospital persona is deactivated in response to a second trigger comprising at least one of a manual trigger at block or a dynamic trigger at block . The manual trigger may be for example logging out of the first hospital persona or a Bluetooth or other trigger wherein the device is passed over a signal source upon exiting the hospital. The dynamic trigger may be for example the device no longer receiving the wireless signal that triggered the loading of the first hospital persona at block . In another embodiment a GPS signal may be received by the device to activate the first hospital persona at block .

In an embodiment if the manual trigger is used the data that was modified created during the time the hospital persona was activated on the device may be saved to the remote network at block . If the first hospital persona is deactivated at block by the dynamic trigger a portion of the data that was modified accessed may have been saved to the remote hospital network at block and a portion of the data may be saved to a trusted security zone on the device at block . This trusted security zone may be accessed by the hospital network the next time the hospital persona is activated on that device so that the accessed modified data can be uploaded to the network. Alternatively a hospital employee with appropriate credentials may manually unload the information from the device. At block subsequent to the first hospital persona being deactivated at block regardless of how the deactivation is triggered access to the original persona may be restored. Restoring access to the original persona at block may comprise restoring access to applications applets audio functions camera and video functions as well as physical ports. A business such as a hospital may want to disable access to these types of functions because they do not want hospital records or pictures of patients or other information being copied and distributed.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

