---

title: Resource management in multiple radio access networks
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure describe techniques and configurations for resource management associated with communications in multiple radio access networks. In one example, a method of resource management may include obtaining quality of experience (QoE) information from a network server running deep packet inspection or an application executing on a computing device and configured to provide content to the computing device for user access, and determining whether to adjust the content delivery via at least one of the two radio access networks, based at least in part on the quality experience information. The adjustment may include increasing or reducing the content delivery via one of the radio access networks. The content may be delivered to the computing device via at least two radio access networks substantially simultaneously. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258734&OS=09258734&RS=09258734
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09258734
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130812
---
The present application is a national phase entry under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2013 054542 filed Aug. 12 2013 entitled RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN MULTIPLE RADIO ACCESS NETWORKS the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to the field of wireless communication systems and more particularly to techniques and configurations for managing resources in multiple radio access networks.

Interactions between wireless devices and wireless communication networks in which the devices operate may be conducted via different radio access networks. Today s mobile client wireless devices such as laptops smartphones ultrabooks tablet computers and the like may be equipped with components e.g. Wi Fi and cellular radios configured to provide the wireless device with access to different radio access networks e.g. wireless local area networks such as Wi Fi and cellular networks substantially simultaneously. However it may be challenging to integrate multiple radio access networks e.g. Wi Fi and cellular network in a cost effective way e.g. by maximizing the use of Wi Fi versus a cellular network for wireless communications without sacrificing quality of user experience particularly when using applications that involve data streaming.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide data techniques and configurations in a wireless communication network including techniques and configurations for managing resources such as multiple radio access networks RAN configured to facilitate content delivery to a wireless device operating in these radio access networks. In some embodiments the techniques described herein provide for aggregating resources from at least two radio access networks such as for example a wireless local area network WLAN such as Wi Fi and a cellular network e.g. wireless wide area network WWAN based in part on the quality of user experience QoE measurements associated with content delivery to the wireless device via the radio access networks.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout and in which is shown by way of illustration embodiments in which the subject matter of the present disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations are described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations may not be performed in the order of presentation. Operations described may be performed in a different order than the described embodiment. Various additional operations may be performed and or described operations may be omitted in additional embodiments.

The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present disclosure are synonymous.

As used herein the term logic module or circuitry may refer to be part of or include an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group and or memory shared dedicated or group that execute one or more software or firmware programs a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality. In some embodiments the term logic module or circuitry may refer to a combination of software and hardware components.

Example embodiments may be described herein in relation to wireless communication networks including networks such as 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE networks including any amendments updates and or revisions e.g. LTE Release 10 also referred to as LTE Advanced LTE A LTE Release 11 etc. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX networks and the like. The embodiments described herein may operate in relation to a radio access network e.g. an evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN having evolved node base stations eNBs and a core network e.g. an evolved packet core having gateways management entities etc.

In other embodiments communication schemes described herein may be compatible with additional alternative communication standards specifications and or protocols. For example embodiments of the present disclosure may be applied to other types of wireless networks where similar advantages may be obtained. Such networks may include but are not limited to WLANs such as Wi Fi wireless personal area networks WPANs and or wireless wide area networks WWANs such as cellular networks and the like.

The following embodiments may be used in a variety of applications including transmitters and receivers of a mobile wireless radio system. Radio systems specifically included within the scope of the embodiments include but are not limited to network interface cards NICs network adaptors base stations access points APs relay nodes eNBs gateways bridges hubs and satellite radiotelephones. Further the radio systems within the scope of embodiments may include satellite systems personal communication systems PCS two way radio systems global positioning systems GPS two way pagers personal computers PCs and related peripherals personal digital assistants PDAs personal computing accessories and all existing and future arising systems which may be related in nature and to which the principles of the embodiments could be suitably applied.

The UE may be for example a subscriber station e.g. a mobile wireless device that is configured to communicate with the eNB wireless access points in conformance with one or more protocols. One or more antennas of the UE may be used to concurrently utilize radio resources of multiple respective component carriers e.g. which may correspond with antennas of eNB or WAP of RAN . The UE may be configured to communicate using Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA in e.g. downlink communications and or Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA in e.g. uplink communications in some embodiments.

While generally depicts the UE as a mobile device e.g. a cellular phone in various embodiments the UE may be a personal computer PC a notebook ultrabook netbook smartphone an ultra mobile PC UMPC a handheld mobile device an universal integrated circuit card UICC a personal digital assistant PDA a Customer Premise Equipment CPE a tablet or other consumer electronics such as MP3 players digital cameras and the like. In an embodiment the UE may be a Machine Type Communication MTC device also known as machine to machine device. In the present disclosure the terms UE client and mobile wireless device will be used interchangeably for simplicity purposes.

In some embodiments communication with the UE via RAN may be facilitated via one or more nodes e.g. Radio Network Controllers . The one or more nodes may act as an interface between the core network and the RAN . According to various embodiments the one or more nodes may include a Mobile Management Entity MME that is configured to manage signaling exchanges e.g. authentication of the UE and NAS non access stratum messages between the base stations and the core network e.g. one or more network servers a Packet Data Network Gateway PGW to provide a gateway router to the Internet and or a Serving Gateway SGW to manage user data tunnels or connections between the base stations of the RAN and the PGW. Other types of nodes may be used in other embodiments.

The core network may include logic e.g. a module to provide authentication of the UE or other actions associated with establishment of a communication link to provide a connected state of the UE with the network . For example the core network may include a network entity such as a network server e.g. one or more servers that may be communicatively coupled to the base stations . In an embodiment the network server may include a Home Subscriber Server HSS which may be used to manage user parameters such as a user s International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI authentication information and the like. The core network may include other servers interfaces and modules. In some embodiments logic associated with different functionalities of the network server or one or more network servers may be combined to reduce a number of servers including for example being combined in a single machine or module. In some embodiments the network server may be deployed inside the core network or inside RAN or as shown in . In general eNB WAP and server may physically be co located in the same piece of hardware machine e.g. one or more computing devices.

According to various embodiments the network may be an Internet Protocol IP based network. For example the core network may be at least in part an IP based network such as a packet switched PS network. Interfaces between network nodes e.g. the one or more nodes may be based on IP including a backhaul connection to the base stations . In some embodiments the network may be enabled to provide connection with a circuit switched CS network e.g. CS domain . In an embodiment a UE may communicate with the network according to one or more communication protocols such as for example Radio Resource Control RRC protocol adapted for LTE communication environment.

In some embodiments the resource management of communications between the UE and the core network over multiple radio access networks and may be based on quality of experience information provided to the UE . The described techniques enable allocating data traffic e.g. content delivery between different radio access networks such as 3GPP access network and WLAN so as to efficiently use bandwidth provided by the radio access networks and while minimizing cost of content delivery. For example the cost of content delivery over WLAN such as Wi Fi may be lower than the cost of content delivery over a cellular network. Accordingly allocating data traffic to maximize the use of Wi Fi network when possible may result in cost savings associated with content delivery. In another example increasing end to end E2E throughput through the cellular network may ensure that sufficient volume of content may be buffered by the wireless device e.g. UE for user access so as to provide seamless quality of user experience such as by providing a non interrupted content delivery to the user.

The integration protocol stack may further include a virtual connection layer that may be responsible for measuring downlink network performance e.g. packet loss rate throughput delay etc. The virtual connection layer may include in some embodiments multi radio technology multi RAT resource manager configured to determine how to split data traffic over multiple networks e.g. cellular and Wi Fi for bandwidth BW aggregation.

In some embodiments the multi RAT resource manager may be configured to obtain a client interface quality of user experience QoE information report from the application layer in order to make an informed decision regarding BW aggregation e.g. adjusting delivery of data traffic such as content between the radio access networks based on network performance measurements as well as QoE information in the QoE information report. In some embodiments the QoE information may include a subjective measure of user experience with a particular service e.g. providing user access to content through an application executing on a client device such as UE . In some embodiments the QoE information report may be obtained from the server as shown in . For example the server may perform deep packet inspection in order to obtain the network performance measurements and QoE information and provide it to the multi RAT resource manager .

For example if the application layer includes an application configured to provide a streaming of content to the UE e.g. a video or audio streaming application the QoE information may include a Playback Buffer PB value for example a period of time e.g. number of seconds that the application may be able to provide content for user access e.g. play a video file with all the packets that have been received so far and a Player State PS value for example an integer to indicate the current state of the application e.g. unstarted ended content being provided for user access e.g. playing paused buffered queued and the like .

For example if the streaming application includes YouTube the multi RAT resource manager may be configured to obtain from the application layer the following YouTube JavaScript player application program interface API functions in order to determine QoE information as an example PB and PS values 

In order to facilitate BW aggregation decision making by the multi RAT resource manager a playback buffer threshold PBT may be defined as a targeted playback buffer e.g. a targeted period of time the application may be able to provide content that is buffered for user access e.g. play a video file .

The multi RAT resource manager may use the following technique to make the BW aggregation content delivery adjustment decision If PB

Accordingly E2E throughput may be adjusted e.g. increased if the playback buffer PB is below the threshold PBT. For example the multi RAT resource manager may adjust the WLAN e.g. Wi Fi offload ratio such that both networks may be fully utilized. If the playback buffer is higher than the threshold the application performance may be considered to be at a desired level and the multi radio technology resource manager may increase the WLAN offload ratio by x or to 100 to reduce the cellular usage. In general the multi RAT resource manager may utilize the WLAN offload ratio as a main control parameter for content delivery adjustment. As described above the WLAN offload ratio defines how much traffic is sent over Wi Fi. When the multi RAT resource manager determines to increase WLAN offload the WLAN offload ratio may be set to 100 or increased by x for each control cycle.

The multi RAT resource manager may adjust PBT as follows when PS indicates buffering PBT PBT0 PB where PBT0 may be an initial value which may be preconfigured to a fixed value e.g. about 20 seconds . Accordingly PBT may be a dynamically determined threshold value.

If PS is not any of the following states buffering playing or pausing the multi RAT resource manager may reset PBT to the initial value PBT0. PB may be updated periodically while PBT may only be updated in the event of buffering. For example when buffering occurs at t0 PB 10 time units e.g. seconds and PBT0 20 time units then PBT 30 time units. Thus PBT may be set to 30 time units until the next buffering event. A new PB may be determined in each control cycle e.g. upon receipt of the QoE information from the application layer .

The process may begin at block where a multi radio technology resource manager may become operational. At block the multi radio technology resource manager may wait for a QoE information report from an application e.g. a streaming application of the application layer of the protocol stack described in reference to . As described above in some embodiments the application layer may include a video player YouTube or other video or audio streaming application. At block the multi RAT resource manager may receive the QoE report from the application layer .

At decision block the multi RAT resource manager may initiate a determination based on the QoE information provided in the received report of a current state of the application. More specifically the multi RAT resource manager may determine whether PS value provided in the QoE information indicates that the application is in a buffering state e.g. whether the content delivered via the application is being buffered e.g. in a local memory of the client .

If the multi RAT resource manager determines at decision block that the application is in the buffering state at block the multi RAT resource manager may adjust a volume of content provided via a WLAN e.g. Wi Fi . In some embodiments the multi radio technology resource manager may reduce WLAN offload ratio in order to increase the total throughput. The process may then revert to block where the multi RAT resource manager may wait for a next QoE information report.

If at decision block the multi RAT resource manager determines that the application is not in the buffering state the multi RAT resource manager may determine at decision block whether the application is in a playing or pausing state based on the PS value provided in the QoE information. If the multi radio technology resource manager determines that the application is in either of these states the multi RAT resource manager may determine at decision block whether the value of playback buffer PB is less than playback buffer threshold PBT.

If the multi RAT resource manager determines at decision block that the value of playback buffer PB is less than playback buffer threshold PBT the multi RAT resource manager at block may adjust e.g. increase or reduce the WLAN offload ratio in order to fully utilize both Wi Fi and cellular and increase the total throughput. In some embodiments the decision of whether the WLAN offload ration may be increased or reduced may depend for example on which network is more overloaded. If WLAN is more overloaded the WLAN offload ratio may be reduced if the cellular network is more overloaded the WLAN offload ratio may be increased. In some embodiments the multi RAT resource manager may reduce WLAN off load ratio in order to increase E2E throughput through the cellular network.

If the multi RAT resource manager determines at decision block that the value of playback buffer PB is equal or greater than the PBT the multi RAT resource manager at block may increase WLAN offload ratio in order to reduce cellular usage. The process may then revert to block where the multi RAT resource manager may wait for the next QoE information report.

If at decision block the multi RAT resource manager determines that the application is not in a playing or pausing state at block the multi RAT resource manager may reset PBT to its initial value PBT0 as described above. The multi RAT resource manager may then adjust e.g. increase WLAN offload ratio at block . The process may then revert to block where the multi RAT resource manager may wait for the next QoE information report.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented into a system using any suitable hardware and or software to configure as desired. schematically illustrates an example system that may be used to practice various embodiments described herein. illustrates for one embodiment an example system having one or more processor s system control module coupled to at least one of the processor s system memory coupled to system control module non volatile memory NVM storage coupled to system control module and one or more communications interface s coupled to system control module .

In some embodiments the system may be capable of functioning as the UE as described herein. In other embodiments the system may be capable of functioning as the one or more nodes or network server of or otherwise provide logic module that performs functions as described for eNB and or other modules described herein. In some embodiments the system may include one or more computer readable media e.g. system memory or NVM storage having instructions and one or more processors e.g. processor s coupled with the one or more computer readable media and configured to execute the instructions to implement a module to perform actions described herein.

System control module for one embodiment may include any suitable interface controllers to provide for any suitable interface to at least one of the processor s and or to any suitable device or component in communication with system control module .

System control module may include memory controller module to provide an interface to system memory . The memory controller module may be a hardware module a software module and or a firmware module.

System memory may be used to load and store data and or instructions for example for system . System memory for one embodiment may include any suitable volatile memory such as suitable DRAM for example. In some embodiments the system memory may include double data rate type four synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR4 SDRAM .

System control module for one embodiment may include one or more input output I O controller s to provide an interface to NVM storage and communications interface s .

The NVM storage may be used to store data and or instructions for example. NVM storage may include any suitable non volatile memory such as flash memory for example and or may include any suitable non volatile storage device s such as one or more hard disk drive s HDD s one or more compact disc CD drive s and or one or more digital versatile disc DVD drive s for example.

The NVM storage may include a storage resource physically part of a device on which the system is installed or it may be accessible by but not necessarily a part of the device. For example the NVM storage may be accessed over a network via the communications interface s .

Communications interface s may provide an interface for system to communicate over one or more network s and or with any other suitable device. The system may wirelessly communicate with the one or more components of the wireless network in accordance with any of one or more wireless network standards and or protocols.

For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be packaged together with logic for one or more controller s of system control module e.g. memory controller module . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be packaged together with logic for one or more controllers of system control module to form a System in Package SiP . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be integrated on the same die with logic for one or more controller s of system control module . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be integrated on the same die with logic for one or more controller s of system control module to form a System on Chip SoC .

In various embodiments the system may be but is not limited to a server a workstation a desktop computing device or a mobile computing device e.g. a laptop computing device a handheld computing device a tablet a netbook etc. . In various embodiments the system may have more or less components and or different architectures. For example in some embodiments the system may include one or more of a camera a keyboard liquid crystal display LCD screen including touch screen displays non volatile memory port multiple antennas graphics chip application specific integrated circuit ASIC and speakers.

The embodiments described herein may be further illustrated by the following examples. Example 1 is a multi radio technology resource manager for managing resources in multiple radio access networks comprising logic to obtain from an application layer of a computing device associated with the resource manager or a network server that is capable of deep packet inspection quality of experience QoE information associated with a provision of content being delivered to the computing device for user access wherein the content is delivered via at least two radio access networks and logic to initiate adjustment of the content delivery via at least one of the two radio access networks based at least in part on the QoE information.

Example 2 may include the subject matter of Example 1 and further specifies that the QoE information may include a value indicating a status of the content provision for user access the status including unstarted ended being provided paused buffered or queued a value indicating a portion of content that is buffered by the computing device a value indicating a time period elapsed since the content provision started or a value indicating a duration of the content provision for user access.

Example 3 may include the subject matter of Example 2 and further specifies that the multi radio technology resource manager may further comprise logic to generate a target buffer threshold associated with the content based on the QoE information the target buffer threshold indicating a target time period during which the buffered portion of the content is to be provided for user access and logic to determine whether to increase end to end E2E content delivery throughput via the two radio access networks or to increase a volume of content delivery via one of the two radio access networks based at least in part on the generated target buffer threshold and the status of the content provision for user access.

Example 4 may include the subject matter of Example 3 and further specifies that the one of the two radio access networks may include a cellular network and the other one of the two radio access networks may include a local area network.

Example 5 may include the subject matter of Example 4 and further specifies that the local area network includes Wi Fi and the cellular network includes a wireless wide area network WWAN .

Example 6 may include the subject matter of Example 3 and further specifies that the multi radio technology resource manager may further comprise logic to calculate the target buffer threshold based on the value indicating a portion of content that is buffered by the computing device the value indicating a time period elapsed since the content provision started and the value indicating a duration of the content provision for user access.

Example 7 may include the subject matter of Example 3 and further specifies that the multi radio technology resource manager may further comprise logic to reset the buffer threshold to a determined value based at least in part on the status of the content provision for user access.

Example 8 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 1 to 7 and further specifies that the computing device includes a wireless device.

Example 9 may include the subject matter of Example 8 and further specifies that the wireless device includes at least one of a smartphone a tablet computer an ultrabook a desktop or a laptop.

Example 10 is a computer implemented method for managing resources in multiple radio access networks comprising obtaining by a computing device quality of experience QoE information from a network server running deep packet inspection or an application executing on the computing device and configured to provide content to the computing device for user access wherein the content is delivered to the computing device via at least two radio access networks and determining with the computing device whether to adjust the content delivery via at least one of the two radio access networks based at least in part on the quality experience information the adjustment including increasing the content delivery via one of the radio access networks.

Example 11 may include the subject matter of Example 10 and further specifies that the adjusting the content delivery via at least one of the two radio access networks includes generating with the computing device a target buffer threshold associated with the content based on the QoE information the target buffer threshold indicating a target time period during which a buffered portion of the content is to be provided for user access and determining with the computing device whether to increase end to end E2E content delivery throughput via the two radio access networks or to increase a volume of content delivery via one of the two radio access networks based at least in part on a result of the generating.

Example 12 may include the subject matter of Example 11 and further specifies that the determining may be further based on a status of the application.

Example 13 may include the subject matter of Example 12 and further specifies that the status of the application is included in the QoE the status including unstarted ended being provided paused buffered or queued a value indicating a portion of content that is buffered by the computing device a value indicating a time period elapsed since the content provision started or a value indicating a duration of the content provision for user access.

Example 14 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 10 to 13 and further specifies that the application includes a content streaming application.

Example 15 is at least one computing device readable storage medium having executable instructions for managing resources in multiple radio access networks stored thereon that in response to execution by a computing device cause the computing device to obtain from a network server running deep packet inspection or an application executing on the computing device quality of experience QoE information associated with provision of content by the application to the computing device for user access wherein the content is delivered for provision substantially simultaneously via at least two radio access networks and increase a volume of the content delivery via at least one of the two radio access networks based at least in part on the quality experience information.

Example 16 may include the subject matter of Example 15 and further specifies that the executable instructions further cause the computing device to generate a target buffer threshold associated with the content based on the QoE information the target buffer threshold indicating a target time period during which a buffered portion of the content is to be provided for user access and determine whether to increase end to end E2E content delivery throughput via the two radio access networks or to increase a volume of content delivery via one of the two radio access networks based at least in part on the target buffer threshold.

Example 17 may include the subject matter of Example 16 and further specifies that the executable instructions further cause the computing device to buffer the portion of the content on the computing device.

Example 18 may include the subject matter of Example 15 and further specifies that the one of the two radio access networks includes a cellular network and wherein the one of the two radio access networks includes a local area network.

Example 19 may include the subject matter of Example 18 and further specifies that the local area network includes Wi Fi and the cellular network includes a wireless wide area network WWAN .

Example 20 may include the subject matter of Example 15 and further specifies that the application includes a video audio or other content streaming application.

Example 21 may include the subject matter of Example 15 and further specifies that the QoE information may be obtained from a network server or an application programming interface API associated with the application.

Example 22 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 15 to 21 and further specifies that the computing device readable storage medium is included in an apparatus the apparatus including one or more processors coupled with the one or more computing device readable medium and configured to execute the instructions stored on the computing device readable medium.

Example 23 is an apparatus for managing resources in multiple radio access networks comprising means for obtaining from an application layer of a computing device associated with the resource manager or a network server that is capable of deep packet inspection quality of experience QoE information associated with a provision of content being delivered to the computing device for user access wherein the content is delivered via at least two radio access networks and means for initiating adjustment of the content delivery via at least one of the two radio access networks based at least in part on the QoE information.

Example 24 may include the subject matter of Example 23 and further specifies that the apparatus may further comprise means for generating a target buffer threshold associated with the content based on the QoE information the target buffer threshold indicating a target time period during which a portion of the content that is buffered is to be provided for user access and means for determining whether to increase end to end E2E content delivery throughput via the two radio access networks or to increase a volume of content delivery via one of the two radio access networks based at least in part on the generated target buffer threshold and the status of the content provision for user access.

Example 25 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 23 to 24 and further specifies that the one of the two radio access networks includes a cellular network and wherein the other one of the two radio access networks includes a local area network.

Various operations are described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented into a system using any suitable hardware and or software to configure as desired.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for purposes of description a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments described herein be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

