---

title: System and methods for secure entry of a personal identification number (PIN)
abstract: Systems and methods for credential character selection are provided. The system includes one or more sensors configured to detect a character selection and generate a character selection signal, and detect a character selection completion and generate a character selection completion signal. The system also includes one or more processors coupled to the one or more sensors, the one or more processors configured to receive the character selection signal and the character selection completion signal, and generate an output signal based on the received character selection signal that includes components of a credential. The system also includes a network interface component configured to transmit the output signal. The credential characters may be components of a PIN or password. Moreover, the credential character selections may be made on one device, but displayed on a separate coupled device. The character selections may be a selection of a character or a modification of character.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390256&OS=09390256&RS=09390256
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09390256
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 413 063 filed on Mar. 6 2012. This application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 706 691 filed on Sep. 27 2012. The entire contents of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Embodiments disclosed herein are related to systems and methods for enabling the secure entry of credentials such as personal identification numbers PINs . In particular systems and methods disclosed herein may provide for the secure input of a PIN on an input device that has one or more sensors used to receive inputs and transmit the inputs to a display device coupled to the input device.

Integrated circuit IC cards also known as Chip and PIN cards or Europay MasterCard and Visa EMV cards have become the standard financial transaction cards also known as credit or debit cards that are used in Europe. These cards include an integrated circuit chip embedded thereon which is designed to be read by an IC chip reader at a point of sale POS terminal when conducting a financial transaction such as purchasing goods. In order to authenticate the transaction the payer is typically required to enter a PIN associated with the IC chip using a keypad on the POS terminal. In addition to or instead of entering a PIN a payer may be required to authenticate the transaction using a signature.

Modern mobile devices are capable as acting as POS terminals using a card reader in communication with the mobile device such as the PayPal Here device offered by PayPal of San Jose Calif. However these devices are currently only able to process traditional magnetic stripe financial transaction cards. Efforts to develop an IC chip reader for use with a mobile device have had difficulty in gaining approval and certification due to the inherent insecurity of the mobile device. Mobile devices may have malware executing thereon which may be designed to capture a user s PIN or other information from the IC chip that could be read by a mobile IC chip reader.

Accordingly there is a need for a system and method that enables the secure entry of credentials such as personal identification numbers PINs . In particular there is a need for systems and methods that allow the secure input of a PIN associated with an integrated circuit chip embedded on a financial transactions card by using a mobile device that is communication with a card and integrated circuit chip reader that is in communication with the mobile device and displays the PIN.

In the following description specific details are set forth describing certain embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. The specific embodiments presented are meant to be illustrative but not limiting. One skilled in the art may realize other material that although not specifically described herein is within the scope and spirit of this disclosure.

Consistent with some embodiments there is provided a system for credential character selection. The system includes one or more sensors the one or more sensors configured to detect a character selection and generate a character selection signal and detect a character selection completion and generate a character selection completion signal. The system also includes one or more processors coupled to the one or more sensors the one or more processors configured to receive the character selection signal and the character selection completion signal and generate an output signal based on the received character selection signal the output signal including components of a credential. The system further includes and a network interface component configured to transmit the output signal.

Consistent with some embodiments there is also provided a method of credential character selection. The method includes steps of detecting a character selection generating a character selection signal detecting a character selection completion generating a character selection completion signal receiving the generated character selection signal and the generated character selection completion signal and generating by the one or more processors an output signal including components of a credential and transmitting the output signal.

Consistent with some embodiments there is also provided a display unit. The display unit includes one or more processors configured to produce an initial state modify the initial state based on received modifications to the initial state and encrypt a final state based on a received indication that the final state has been achieved. The display unit also includes a memory coupled to the one or more processors and a network interface component configured to receive the modifications to the initial state receive the indication that a final state has been achieved and transmit the encrypted final state. The display unit also includes a display coupled to the one or more processors the display configured to display the initial state the modifications to the initial state and the final state.

Consistent with some embodiments there is also provided an input device. The input device includes one or more processors a memory coupled to the one or more processors one or more sensors configured to generate user signals based on detected user actions a user interface configured to receive the user signals and network interface component in communication with a display unit the network interface component configured to transmit the received user signals to the display unit wherein the user signals comprise modifications to an initial state of the display unit and an indication of a final state of the display unit.

Consistent with some embodiments there is further provided a method for inputting a personal identification number PIN using a display unit that displays the PIN. The method includes steps of generating by the display unit an initial PIN state displaying by the display unit the initial PIN state receiving by the display unit signals for modifying the displayed initial PIN state receiving by the display unit signals indicating that the modified PIN state is a final PIN state and encrypting by the display unit the final PIN state and transmitting the final PIN state.

A computer readable medium is provided. The computer readable medium may include instructions that when executed by one or more processors of a computing device cause the computing device to perform a method of credential character selection. The method includes steps of displaying a sequence of credential characters highlighting a first credential character in the sequence periodically highlighting remaining credential characters in the sequence at a predetermined rate detecting a credential character selection determining timing information from the detected credential character selection and the predetermined rate detecting a character selection completion generating a character selection completion signal reconstructing a credential based on the based on the determined timing information and transmitting an output signal including the reconstructed credential.

These and other embodiments will be described in further detail below with respect to the following figures.

Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

Client computing device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example client computing device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. smart phone tablet personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer personal computer a connected set top box STB such as provided by cable or satellite content providers or a video game system console a head mounted display HMD or other wearable computing device including a wearable computing device having an eyeglass projection screen and or various other generally known types of computing devices. Consistent with some embodiments client computing device may include any appropriate combination of hardware and or software having one or more processors and capable of reading instructions stored on a tangible non transitory machine readable medium for execution by the one or more processors. Consistent with some embodiments client computing device includes a machine readable medium such as a memory not shown that includes instructions for execution by one or more processors not shown for causing client computing device to perform specific tasks. For example such instructions may include authentication app for authenticating client computing device to remote server . Consistent with some embodiments authentication app may be a mobile authentication app which may be used to authenticate user to remote server over network . Authentication app may include a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by one or more processors that is configured to interface and communicate with the remote server or other servers managed by content providers or merchants via network . Authentication app may interface with a display unit that may be coupled to client computing device and configured to display characters of a credential that may be used to authenticate with remote server . Authentication app may also interface with one or more sensors coupled to and or integrated in client computing device for detecting character selection modification and completion signals which may be indicative of user indicating characters of a credential that may be used to authenticate with remote server .

Client computing device may include a browser app . Browser app may be a mobile browser app which may be used to provide a user interface to permit a user to browse information available over network . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over network . Browser application may include a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by one or more processors that is configured to interface and communicate with remote server or other servers managed by content providers or merchants via network . For example user is able to access websites to find and purchase items as well as access user account information or web content. Client computing device may also include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to user including accessing a user account with remote server . For example applications may include interfaces and communication protocols that allow the user to receive and transmit information through network and to remote server and other online sites. Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. Applications may include mobile apps downloaded and resident on client computing device that enables user to access content through the apps.

Remote server according to some embodiments may be maintained by an online payment provider which may provide processing for online financial and information transactions on behalf of user . Remote server may include at least authentication application which may be adapted to interact with authentication app of client computing device over network to authenticate client computing device to remote server . According to some embodiments authentication app may send information over network to client computing device for use by authentication app for authenticating user to remote server .

Remote server may also include an application database for storing various applications for interacting with client computing device over network for purposes other than authentication. Such applications may include applications for authentication conducting financial transactions and shopping and purchasing items. Remote server may also include an authentication database that may store information for authentication application to use during authentication. Authentication database may also store information about user such as account information personal information and stored credentials of user .

Consistent with some embodiments computing system includes a system bus for interconnecting various components within computing system and communication information between the various components. Such components include a processing component which may be one or more processors micro controllers or digital signal processors DSP a system memory component which may correspond to random access memory RAM an internal memory component which may correspond to read only memory ROM and an external or static memory which may correspond to optical magnetic or solid state memories. Consistent with some embodiments computing system further includes a display component for displaying information to a user of computing system . Display component may be a liquid crystal display LCD screen an organic light emitting diode OLED screen including active matrix AMOLED screens an LED screen a plasma display or a cathode ray tube CRT display. Computing system may also include an input component allowing for a user of computing system to input information to computing system . Such information could include payment information such as an amount required to complete a transaction account information authentication information such as a credential or identification information. An input component may include for example a keyboard or key pad whether physical or virtual. Computing system may further include a navigation control component configured to allow a user to navigate along display component . Consistent with some embodiments navigation control component may be a mouse a trackball or other such device. Moreover if device includes a touch screen display component input component and navigation control may be a single integrated component such as a capacitive sensor based touch screen.

Computing system may perform specific operations by processing component executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component internal memory component and or external or static memory . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure. Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processing component for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. The medium may correspond to any of system memory internal memory and or external or static memory . Consistent with some embodiments the computer readable medium is tangible and non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media include optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise system bus . According to some embodiments transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. Some common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computing system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computing systems coupled by a communication link to network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another. Computing system may transmit and receive messages data and one or more data packets information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and network interface component . Communication link may be wireless through a wireless data protocol such as Wi Fi 3G 4G HDSPA LTE RF NFC or through a wired connection. Network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via communication link . Received program code may be executed by processing component as received and or stored in memory or .

Computing system may also include sensor components . Sensor components may include any sensory device that captures information related to the surroundings of computing system . Sensor components may include camera and imaging components accelerometers GPS devices motion capture devices and biometric sensors and other devices that are capable of providing information about computing system user or their surroundings. In some embodiments sensor components including an accelerometer may be used to detect a motion of computing system made by a user that may be indicative of a user recognition of a displayed character or digit of a credential. Sensor components may include a microphone configured to detect a voice of user and translate the detected voice into an electrical signal that may be interpreted by processing component as being indicative of a user recognition of a displayed character or digit of a credential or as corresponding to a particular number action or direction in entering a credential. For example user may say the credential aloud and the microphone will detect this and translate this into text corresponding to the credential. In another example user may be presented with credential components and may be able to speak an indication such as yes ok that s it etc. to indicate that a particular credential component corresponds to a user credential component. User may be able to further speak next left right etc. to select additional credential components.

Sensor components may include one or more physiological response sensors. In some embodiments a physiological response may be a slight or subtle facial or body movement. For example the user can blink wink smile frown wave or make a subtle facial movement the user s voice or another sound made or controlled by the user. Physiological response sensors may include cameras and microphones and the like. Sensor components may also include brain activity sensors. Brain activity sensors may be part of a hat helmet or other item that is worn or placed in close proximity with a user s head. Brain activity may be such as sensing the user concentrating tensing muscles or doing nothing conscious. Brain activity may be sensed by an EEG that can sense brain activity associated with a thought a muscle contraction or a user recognition of a displayed character or digit of a credential. Sensor components may include a button and or can sense when a button or other switch or input device is actuated. The button can be hidden from view by bystanders. The button can be shielded from view such that a user s hand that is operating the button is also shielded from view. Sensor components may include capacitive or other touch screen sensing components such as may be found in a touch screen computing device. Sensor components may include a camera. The camera can capture images that are indicative of a physiological response. The camera may be a visible light camera or a depth sensing camera such as the Microsoft Xbox Kinect camera. The camera may also be configured to detect infrared IR light or ultraviolet UV light. The camera may also be a stereo camera a time of flight ToF camera or other camera capable of detecting capturing information about computing system user or their surroundings. Sensor components may be integrated with computing system or may be separate from and coupled to computing system . Sensor components may interface with at least one of input component and navigation control component such that information captured by the sensor may be used for input and or navigation control. In some embodiments information captured by sensor components may be used to modify and select characters of a credential.

Computing system may be in communication with display unit using a wireless connection such as a Bluetooth connection a Wi Fi connection an infrared IR connection or other such wireless connections. Computing system may also be in communication with display unit using a wired connection or in some embodiments display unit may be directly coupled to mobile device using a plug in coupling. As shown in computing system may include a user interface that is configured to receive inputs from a user for modifying a state displayed by display unit . User interface may be displayed by a display component of computing system .

Although not shown display unit may also include one or more processors a memory and a network interface component similar to the one or more processors memory and network interface component of computing system described above. The one or more processors memory and network interface component may be integrated on a single integrated circuit such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or on multiple integrated circuits. In some embodiments display unit is a minimalist device that may not be running any operating system and thus may not be susceptible to malware. In some embodiments display unit may be a secure device that is only in communication with computing system making it more difficult for malware to reach display unit . In such embodiments display unit may only be in communication with a single computing system at a time but computing system in communication with display unit may be changed by a user.

Display unit may also include a display component that may be a liquid crystal display LCD screen an organic light emitting diode OLED screen including active matrix AMOLED screens an LED screen a plasma display or a cathode ray tube CRT display. Consistent with some embodiments the one or more processors of display unit may be configured to execute instructions stored in memory to display a state on display component . The displayed state may be an initial state that is generated by the one or more processors of display unit. Further the initial state may be generated randomly or pseudo randomly. The network interface component of the display unit may be configured to receive signals from computing system corresponding to modifications of the displayed initial state input by a user using computing system . As the signals corresponding to modifications are received the one or more processors will process the received signals to determine the modification being made to the displayed initial state and provide instructions to display component for displaying the modified state. Display unit may have an associated media access control MAC address. The MAC address may be used in authentication of a final state.

Consistent with some embodiments display unit may include two or more networked devices in communication with one another. In such embodiments the initial state may be generated on one device for example while the generated initial state is transmitted to another device that includes the display component and displays the generated initial state. According to some embodiments the one or more processors and memory may be in the device that generates the initial state while the display component is in the device that displays the initial state. Moreover all of the networked devices in communication with each other may include a network interface component.

As shown in display unit displays an initial state that includes four digits. Although only four digits are shown display unit may be capable of displaying n digits or characters consistent with the specifications of display component . User interface of computing system displays one or more modifiers that are used as inputs for transmitting signals indicative of modifications to initial state . Consistent with some embodiments modifiers may represent a specific increment or decrement of the digits of the initial state. For example as shown in initial state is displayed as 4753 . A user using computing system may use modifiers to increment or decrement the digits of initial state such that moving a the first modifier to 2 would send a signal to display unit to decrement initial state by 2 to a state of the first digit of initial state to 2 resulting in a displayed state of 2753 . Similar inputs may be made using modifiers until user decides that the displayed state is a final state. When a final state is reached the user may select the SUBMIT button which initiates a transmission of a signal to display unit that a final state has been reached.

When display unit receives the signal indicating that a final state has been reached display unit transmits the final state to computing system . Consistent with some embodiments display unit may include instructions stored in the memory for execution by the one or more processors for encrypting the final state before transmitting the final state to computing system . Once computing system receives the final state computing system may then transmit the final state along with other information to the remote server. The other information may include for example account information and payment details. In some embodiments computing system may check an accuracy or correctness of the final state before transmitting to the remote server. In some embodiments display unit may determine a correctness or accuracy of the final state before transmission to mobile device. In some embodiments display unit may be in communication with the remote server and may be capable of transmitting the final state and any other information which may be encrypted to the remote server wherein such communications are secure.

In some embodiments a user such as user may interact with the modifiers by touching modifiers and scrolling modifiers in a direction if display component is a touch screen display. In some embodiments a user may interact with modifiers using an input component such as input component which may include for example a keyboard or key pad whether physical or virtual. In some embodiments a user may interact with modifiers using a navigation control component such as navigation control component which may be a mouse a trackball or other such device. Moreover a user may interact with modifiers using sensors which may be for example a camera or a microphone. In some embodiments the device or component used to interact with modifiers may be referred to as a sensor or sensors that are used to sense a state or character modification that may generate a signal for modifying characters or digits of a credential such as initial state . In some embodiments the generated signal may be transmitted from computing system to display unit and may include instructions for modifying a state such as initial state displayed on display unit or individual characters within a displayed state. In some embodiments a displayed state may correspond to a credential with individual digits elements or characters of the state corresponding to digits elements or characters of the credential. In some embodiments the credential may correspond to a personal identification number PIN . In some embodiments the PIN may be a PIN generated based on a password such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 281 273 filed on Oct. 25 2011 the entire contents of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In some embodiments the credential may correspond to a secret identifier which may be a credential that is known to user and may be a number associated with user or a combination of numbers associated with user . In one embodiment a secret identifier may correspond to the last four digits of a Social Security number of user . In another embodiment a secret identifier may correspond to a combination of the last four digits of a Social Security number of user and a Zone Improvement Plan ZIP code of residence of user . In some embodiments display unit may include a card and or integrated circuit IC chip reader and the state may correspond to a credential associated with the card and or IC chip.

Consistent with some embodiments display unit may include instructions stored in the memory for execution by the one or more processors for encrypting the final credential before transmitting the final credential to computing system . Once computing system receives the final PIN computing system may then transmit the final credential along with other information to remote server . The other information may include for example account information and payment details. In some embodiments computing system may check an accuracy or correctness of the final credential before transmitting to remote server . In some embodiments display unit may determine a correctness or accuracy of the final credential before transmission to computing system . In some embodiments display unit may be in communication with remote server and may be capable of transmitting the final credential and any other information which may be encrypted to remote server over network .

In some embodiments a user may be able to manipulate modifiers by making motions with their hand or arm to select a character or digit of a credential. For example sensors a camera such as described above that may be configured for detecting the motions made by the user. Sensors may detect this motion and translate the detected motion into an electrical signal that is sent to computing system . Computing system may then translate the electrical signals into manipulations of modifiers that may be further displayed on display component . Consequently a user of system may be able to use system to enter a credential that may be used in some embodiments to authenticate to a server such as remote server . In some embodiments system may correspond to a wearable computing device wherein computing system is wearable and includes coupled or integrated sensors such as a camera or a head mounted display or eyeglass display corresponding to display component or combination thereof.

As shown in sequence having one of the numbers thereof highlighted by a box may be displayed in user interface on display component for user selection. Sequence may be provided to client computing device by remote server through authentication apps and . Sequence may also be generated by client computing device by authentication app . In some embodiments a user may be able to manipulate box to select a character or digit of a credential. Manipulations may be made by touching box and moving box by touching if display component is a touch screen display. In some embodiments a user may manipulate box using an input component such as input component which may include for example a keyboard or key pad whether physical or virtual. In some embodiments a user may manipulate box using a navigation control component such as navigation control component which may be a mouse a trackball or other such device. Moreover a user may manipulate box by making motions or gestures that are captured by sensors . In some embodiments sensors may correspond to a camera such as shown in that is coupled to a set top box coupled to a display component that displays sequence and box. Sensors may correspond to a camera that is coupled to or integrated with a wearable computing device including a head mounted display or eyeglass display that displays sequence and box . Sensors may also correspond to a brain wave sensor such as an EEG.

Returning to sequence is as being oriented horizontally but however may be oriented vertically or at any angle. Moreover sequence need not be linear and can be curved. Sequence may have any shape or configuration. Box may highlight one or more of the digits or characters at a time. Although a box is shown it may other means may be used for highlighting the displayed character or digits in sequence . In some embodiments box may be manipulated to move from left to right across the digits or characters or from right to left across the digits or characters. After sweeping across the characters or digits box may begin a new sweep in the same direction as the previous sweep or can sweep back and forth so as to alternate sweeping directions. Box may move randomly or in any other fashion across or among the characters or digits of sequence .

In some embodiments instead of a user manipulating box to move across character or digits of sequence to select a character or digit of a credential box may automatically move at any desired speed across the characters or digits of sequence . For example box may move sufficiently rapidly across the characters or digits of sequence so as to inhibit a bystander from readily determining which number is being selected by the user. Box may move sufficiently slowly across the characters or digits of sequence so as to allow the user to reliably select a desired character or digit of sequence . In some embodiments a first random sequence is presented to the user and box begins to move across the characters or digits of sequence . In some embodiments box may move across the character or digits of sequence at a rate that changes as a function of time such that experienced users may have a rate that is greater than less experienced users. In some embodiments the rate may be provided by authentication app of remote server to client computing device as part of an authentication process. Information representative of when box begins to move e.g. timing information may be communicated to client computing device and or remote server . When a first character or digit of the user s credential is highlighted the user may make a selection of that character or digit by manipulating box in at least one of the ways described previously. Information representative of the time of the selection e.g. timing information may be communicated to client computing device and or remote server which may determine which character or digit of sequence was selected using the known random sequence and the timing information. The timing information may be the elapsed time between the start of each sweep across the characters or digits of sequence and the time at which the user manipulated box to select a character or digit. This process can repeat for each character or digit of the user s credential. When the entire credential has been entered the user can indicate that the credential is in a final state by pressing a submit button such as submit button . Alternatively the process may be automatically ended when a valid credential has been entered or when a predetermined number of characters or digits has been selected. In some embodiments the timing of the selection can be used to calculate a position of box and the highlighted character or digit rather than transmitting the selected character or digit to computing system display unit or remote server . Moreover in some embodiments a beginning position movement or sweep rate of box may be randomly initialized for each attempt. Further a behavior of the movement or sweep may be changed on each presentation to either reverse at an end of the characters or digits of sequence or wrap around to a beginning of sequence .

Box may highlight one or more characters or digits of sequence at a time. Box may automatically move or be manipulated to move randomly or in any other fashion across or among the characters or digits of sequence . Moreover box may move at any desired speed across the characters or digits of sequence . In some embodiments a user may select characters or digits of sequence by manipulating box or if box is moving automatically can provide an indication when box is on a character or digit of a credential similarly to sequence in except that box may move or be manipulated in two dimensions e.g. from side to side and up and down instead of in one dimension e.g. only from side to side.

The characters or digits of sequences and and array may be present in an image such as a raster image or text such as ASCII text . In some embodiments characters or digits of sequences and and array may have a different font size alignment and or spacing. A series of images may be used to show the highlight moving from one number row or column to another. Sequences and and array may be created by a service such as an image service provided by for example authentication app of remote server or authentication app of client computing device . Timing information may be communicated from client computing device to the remote server to determine each selected character or digit of a credential.

The detection of a character selection may generate a character selection signal . In some embodiments the character selection signal may include information related to the character selection such as the selected character or digit. Steps and may be repeated until a character selection completion is detected . In some embodiments detecting a character selection completion includes detecting a user pressing submit button in user interface . Detecting a character selection completion may also include detecting when user makes an indication that character selection is complete a valid credential has been entered or when a predetermined number of or characters or digits has been selected. A character selection completion signal may then be generated . One or more processors of processing component may then receive the character selection sign and character selection completion signal and generate an output signal . In some embodiments the generated output signal may include credential components. The credential components may include the selected character or digits of the credential. The credential components may include additional information associated with a credential such as a user name account information and transaction amount. Network interface component may then transmit the generated output signal . In some embodiments the generated output signal may be transmitted to remote server over network for authenticating with remote server or to authorize a payment. Although the steps shown in are described as being performed by computing system they may also be performed by display unit remote server or a combination thereof.

Remaining characters in the sequence may then be periodically highlighted at a predetermined rate . The rate may be variable based on a user s experience with the character credential selection method or the rate may be fixed. The rate may be determined according to instructions provided by remote server during an authentication attempt or may be set locally by authentication app or user . A character credential selection may then be detected . In some embodiments a character selection may be detected by sensors which may be a camera microphone accelerometer or brain wave sensor such as an EEG. In some embodiments a character selection may be detected by a touch screen device having an integrated touch sensor. Character selection may also be made by making an indication when box or or row highlight and or column highlight are highlighting a desired character or digit that is detected by sensors . Processing component may then determine timing information from the detected character selection and the known rate of highlighting .

A determination may then be made to see if a character selection completion has been detected . In some embodiments detecting a character selection completion includes detecting a user pressing submit button in user interface . Detecting a character selection completion may also include detecting when user makes an indication that character selection is complete a valid credential has been entered or when a predetermined number of or characters or digits has been selected. If a character selection completion has not been detected steps may be repeated. If a character selection completion is detected processing component may reconstruct the credential based on the determined timing information and transmit an output signal including the reconstructed credential . In some embodiments only the timing information may be included in the output signal such that remote server reconstructs the credential server side for added security.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums including non transitory machine readable medium. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Consequently embodiments as described herein may provide methods systems and devices capable of securely processing transactions involving a PIN. For examples embodiments as described herein may enable the secure input of PINs using an input device in communication with a display device that displays the PIN being input. In particular embodiments as described herein may be used to enable secure mobile payment processing of chip and PIN cards using a mobile device and mobile card and IC chip reader. The examples provided above are exemplary only and are not intended to be limiting. One skilled in the art may readily devise other systems consistent with the disclosed embodiments which are intended to be within the scope of this disclosure. As such the application is limited only by the following claims.

