---

title: Method and system for communicating financial news
abstract: A system and software-implemented method for reporting financial market news and events. Machine-readable extracted data is reformulated in content and format to provide a more efficient display and understanding of the relevance of news and events to the end user. Audio and/or graphic indicators are added to further promote efficient understanding of the delivered news or event message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135662&OS=09135662&RS=09135662
owner: Algo Innovations, LLC
number: 09135662
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131127
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 730 788 filed on 28 Nov. 2012. The Provisional Application is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and is made a part hereof including but not limited to those portions which specifically appear hereinafter.

This invention is directed to a method system and or software for compiling sorting searching filtering referencing and manipulating news and event reports such as financial market related information to produce audio graphical and or textual message formats to help provide for faster human processing of real time financial news and market events within a user interface.

Everyone intuitively understands that financial news and notable market events can move markets. Market participants serving various roles heavily depend on time sensitive news and other market information to help drive decision making. Ideally market information should be fast accurate and informative to uncover opportunities manage risk and boost productivity. However with the exponential growth of global internet connectivity mobile platforms social media online content sharing and other technological related advancements the market information paradigm is changing quickly. Market participants around the globe are bombarded with too much information 20 000 news events per business day for the human to effectively comprehend and use effectively.

There is a continuing need for an improved financial market news and or event communication system that can extract relevancy condense content and or otherwise manipulate information into more human consumable messaging formats.

Similar to a financial news room which reports on the most notable happenings the method system and software of this invention provides or receives relevant events key analytics and other actionable data that have been extracted from various financial related sources broadcasted events data and more particularly financial market news broadcasts. The present invention manipulates the source data into formatted text graphical and or audio broadcasts using text to speech technologies to help the consumer user interact with information in a way that is easy to discover absorb and react upon with deep insight.

The general object of the invention can be attained at least in part through a method for communicating information. The method comprises providing and or receiving a continuous feed of relevant data extracted from a data broadcast automatically creating output data messages from the extracted relevant data wherein the output data messages differ in content and or format from the continuous feed of relevant data and the data broadcast and automatically delivering the output data messages to a user device.

The invention further provides a method for communicating information that comprises providing a plurality of predetermined message templates stored in a database providing and or receiving relevant data extracted from a data broadcast automatically selecting a corresponding message template from the plurality creating message templates for the extracted relevant data automatically populating the selected corresponding message template with the extracted relevant data to create an output data message and automatically delivering the output data message to a user device.

The method and system of this invention provides a user friendly output message that summarizes and displays or otherwise provides the relevant data of broadcast news and event information. The broadcast news and event information can be from any suitable news source that provides electronic and or machine readable news information and the extracting of the relevant data from the broadcast news can be performed by the method system and software of this invention or received from another source such as a third party provider.

The method and system of this invention can use the extracted key or relevant data from the news broadcast to automatically populate pre existing event templates. The method and system also desirably ranks the importance of the information to the intended user such as by market importance relevance novelty or other sentiments. The ranking of each data communication can be on a numerical and or letter scale and desirable includes a graphical representation of the ranking in the final output message. The method and system preferably automatically associates at least one of one of a plurality of audio indicators and or graphic indicators to each output message and particularly to at least highly relevant output messages. The graphical representation can be any established color and or shape that is associated with the ranking in the output message delivered to the user. The graphic indicators improve the receptivity of the information by the user by allowing for a faster more efficient review of the delivered information. Audio indicators can be selected from predetermine sound effects to be associated with the output message to signal importance and relevance to the particular user. In another embodiment of this invention highly relevant messages are provided in spoken audio messages instead of or along with the text graphic messages. The audio output message can be obtained through text to speech technologies.

The method and system of this invention are desirably implemented by software including encoded computer executable instructions for the method steps and stored on a non transient recordable medium and or database of a server computer or other data processor in combination with. The server would have access to an Internet or other communication connection that allows receiving broadcasts or other data and delivering the final output message to a remote user device such as a user computer smartphone and or tablet including the option to deliver final output messages or related information through an application programming interface API for end users to customize accordingly.

The method of this invention uses extracted relevant information from each data broadcast to create one or more different desirably shortened or summarized output data messages that is easier to review quickly and efficiently by the end user than the original data feed broadcasts . In one embodiment of this invention the extracted relevant data is desirably received from a third party data vendor such as RavenPack or Thomson Reuters which provides machine readable news analytics such as including real time structured sentiment relevance and novelty data for entities and events detected in the unstructured data broadcasts and machine readable indictors such as company sentiment indicators macro sentiment indicators and or global economic numbers. Other exemplary data types that can be received by the method and system of this invention include without limitations trading exchange market and message data technical market data indicators internal market data indicators social media data and web scraping data.

Referring to the data is received by the server in box and then parsed and or categorized in box . In step any further extraction of data broadcasts can occur such as for the data broadcasts directly obtained from sources . A copy of the data can be saved to database in step .

In embodiments of this invention the extracted relevant data is used to create an output data message that is delivered to the client end user. As used herein the term relevant data refers to information and generally text numerical data from the data broadcasts that would be considered useful or necessary to an end user. In general the relevant data is of particular importance to many end users but there may be client end users who may have different market narratives and information needs than others. The extracted relevant data is reassembled into new output message that desirably differ in content and or format from both the feed of relevant data and the data broadcasts .

The extracted relevant data can be automatically assembled into the outlet message in any suitable way. In the embodiment of a plurality of pre established message templates are stored in a database for use in generating the text content of the output data message. The system can automatically select the appropriate template for the extracted relevant data and automatically populate the selected corresponding message template with the extracted relevant data to create an output data message. Any suitable templates can be included for use in the invention depending on need such as providing templates tied to particular financial market events. In embodiments of this invention different templates may be provided for delivering the relevant data by audio message and graphic text message.

In an analysis server determines whether the extracted relevant data is or is from financial news in step . If yes the data and or corresponding message template is retrieved in step and the message template is automatically populated in step . If no the data is analyzed in step such as to determine whether the news is sufficiently relevant or meets parameters to forward on to the end user in an output message. If the data is determined to be sufficiently relevant or meets parameters then the relevant data is used in steps and as discussed above. As an alternative to pre established message templates the system can automatically create a message directly from the extracted relevant data such as following established algorithms for organizing the extracted data into readable messages.

In another embodiment of this invention the relevancy is determined before populating the message such as to not waste system resources for messages that won t be sent. For example only highly relevant data are created into output messages and forwarded on to end recipients. In another embodiment of this invention the method is dependent on the data package of the end user. For example End User A can subscribe to receives all news events with any available news analytics data including the most relevant news event happenings in audio message formats. End User B only subscribes to receive determined relevant news event data including the most relevant news event happenings in audio message formats.

In step the system determines whether the data is of high relevancy so as to determine what format s to use e.g. audio and or text to forward the data to the end recipient. In embodiments of this invention a pre established weighted taxonomy is used for determining highly relevant data. The method can be multilayered with each category of data typically having its own specific relevancy algorithm and or scale. For example when an incoming event is identified the system matches the incoming event to the corresponding stored events formula which is used to measure relevancy or importance of the event. Exemplary entities or categories include Company Place Economy Society Political Asset Class Organization etc. with each entity group having multilayered category subgroups ending in event type .

The server next compares a corresponding predetermined numerical relevancy formula to the vendor s numerical value of the event type or category field score in step the vendor s numerical value of the event sentiment field score in step and the vendor s numerical value of the event sentiment field score. In step the server combines the sentiment values of steps and together. The server then compares the combined sentiment number in step to predetermined numerical value to decide if the current event is of major significance. If the data is determined to be highly relevant then the server forwards the message template to both the audio server in step and the distribution server in step . For less relevant data the server forwards the appropriate message template to only the distribution server for text graphic delivery only in step .

Below is a simple exemplary summary of the flowchart of including exemplary predetermined numerical value thresholds.

The output data messages of this invention can include or communicate the relevant data through text graphics and or audio components. In the embodiment of a distribution module or server finalizes and sends output data messages that are text and or graphic based. The server generates the final output data message in step and desirably saves a copy to a database in step . The server then broadcasts the output data message to the subscribed end user recipients in step .

In the embodiment of the extracted relevant data can also be delivered to subscribing end user recipients via or with an audio message. In an audio broadcast module or server generates a speech output data message or optionally an audio component to be added to the output data message of server in step . The speech message can be created by any suitable speech synthesis program as are known and available. In one embodiment of this invention the messages can incorporate voice pitch and speed changes and or different voices for different aspects of the relevant data depending on the type of data e.g. general news vs. market moving information . Sound effects can also be included in the audio message or in non spoken text messages with different sound effects having different connotations as a function of the data message. The server desirably saves a message copy to a database in step . The server then broadcasts the audio output data message to the subscribed end user recipients in step .

In embodiments of this invention the extracted relevant data is ranked or otherwise assigned a value such as a numerical value or a letter ranking. The ranking value is desirably communicated in or with the output data message to provide for a quick understanding of the importance of the output data message. To further promote efficient understanding of the output data message graphic indictors are added to the output data message. A plurality of graphic indicators are established and desirably tied to the importance ranking to visually demonstrate the importance of the data within the message. In additional embodiments predetermined graphical icons can be used to represent event categories or other information in the output data messages for easy visual referencing.

The graphic indicators can incorporate color and shape and can be different for different categories. In other words each output data message can include more than one ranking category and each ranking category has a different visual indicator. As one example a numerical ranking scale can be divided into portions and each portion is associated with one of several related graphic indicators. The graphic indicators can include for example filled and empty squares that are also colored red and green with a scale including a red filled square at one end a red hollow square a green hollow square and a green solid square at the opposing end of the scale. The numerical or letter value for the indicator can be displayed for example in the middle of the corresponding square. To further divide the scale red or green colored and or non colored numbers can be used to indicate middle portions of the scale. An alternative indicator for a different category of information can for example include orange circle having two or more fill levels.

As seen in different graphic indicators are used for the different ranking metrics. The impact ranking in column includes a first plurality of graphic indicators that include empty and filled circles shown in any desired color. A filled circle for example can be used to indicate a ranking of and an empty circle can be used to indicate a ranking of . Rankings below are shown without a graphic but can optionally include variations of the circle depending on need.

The sentiment column includes a second plurality of graphic indicators that are desirably different from the graphic indicators used in column such as in both shape and color. The sentiment indicators of column use empty and filled squares such as with two colors green to indicate high ranking and red to indicate low ranking . As an example a solid green square can be used for rankings between a hollow green square for rankings of green numbers without a shape for rankings of numbers alone for rankings of red numbers for rankings of a red hollow square for rankings of and a red solid square for the lowest rankings of . A legend not shown can be included as a reminder of the ranking indicator scale.

In the relevance column the corresponding market ticker number is shown over a relevance number. A horizontal line graphic indicator is added between the ticker and relevance number for emphasis of 100 relevance rankings. Other colors and indicators can be used such as for output data messages that do not receive the rankings of columns such as green font as a positive indicator red font as a negative news and blue font as a trending indicator. As will be appreciated various indicators shapes and colors can be used according to need or aesthetic effect.

The user interface can include other features such as a window for displaying the original full data broadcast when the corresponding output data message is selected. The user interface also includes a volume and or mute function for controlling any automatic audio indicators or messages tied to the output data message. As will be appreciated the feature components and configuration of the user interface can vary depending on need such as having a mobile layout for displaying on smaller mobile device screens. Column indicates the news type such as breaking news or news flash with a solid line when applicable. Column indicates event sentiment or other information when applicable. Column indicates entity aggregated sentiment and news volume or other information when applicable. Section provides vertical lines depicting news volume over a set period of days with red vertical lines representing negative news and green vertical lines representing positive news. To view news articles associated with a vertical line mousing over and left mouse clicking will open up the news event or events. Horizontal rows represent aggregated news sentiment fields and can be red or green in text color to represent negative or positive indications. Section depicts short term news sentiment using a numerical grading scale and an up or down arrow representing upward positive news momentum or downward negative news momentum.

The present invention is described in further detail in connection with the following examples which illustrate or simulate various aspects involved in the practice of the invention. It is to be understood that all changes that come within the spirit of the invention are desired to be protected and thus the invention is not to be construed as limited by these examples.

Incoming news analytics data can come from the same vendor news source publisher or from two separate vendors e.g. a news source publisher and a third party data vendor. As discussed above the data vendor extracts key analytics from the news source vendor s published events. For example a news vendor news source publisher will partner with data vendor to create and distribute machine readable news analytics for application consumption purposes. The example below receives data from a third party data vendor.

The data vendor s data feed is delivered as machine readable or structured data. Because of this the system is programmed with pre established formulas and parameters to determine what s highly relevant. Below is an example of how the system detects a highly relevant news event and how a textual message template is configured and retrieves extended data to populate an output data message for the audio broadcast server. This particular example shows Trading Exchange Market Data as extended data being retrieved to complete the message string.

This example is hard coded to be processed automatically by the system. Once the incoming news event has been detected as high relevancy it s to be processed and disseminated automatically.

Certain scheduled events are highly anticipated and our system allows for manual soft code as needed. For example when earnings for ABC Company is to be released at 3 15 pm with 8.50 per share earnings estimated the following message template can be prepared beforehand to be automatically disseminated accordingly when the scheduled event is released over the data broadcast.

The finished textual message templates in the above examples are considered complete with the pre established expectation and are ready to be disseminated automatically when updated upon receiving the difference between the further extracted relevant data and the pre established expectation accordingly.

Exemplary extracted relevant structured data can include without limitations various fields or attributes such as event type 1 300 categories entities detected relevancies news event sentiments story body sentiment various company aggregated sentiments news types item genre scheduled unscheduled headline sentiments industry region text size of story type of story location of first mention of relevant entity detected total key word count number of company mentions event index event count linked count more to follow ticker or tradable asset s trading vehicle mention prevailing aggregated sentiment previous event sentiment author sentiment uniqueness news volume news volume good news volume bad pure text sentiment full news impact projection event novelty event global novelty comparing event to other publications or news sources time elapsed since last event for the underlying entity or since last related follow up event event specific sentiment source etc. The system collects and stores these data attributes in a database to construct various functions tools and features within a user application environment.

Most numbers related releases are scheduled meaning it is known at what time and from whom the numbers data is expected. One primary example could be various Government Lock up rooms. As mentioned in the prior example the system can automatically pre populate or manually soft code the appropriate textual message templates to accept the scheduled incoming numbers data and populate the numbers field accordingly. Depending on the actual number released the system will choose to automatically insert higher than projected or lower than projected or as projected . The system also populates the message string with the actual number being released. Example unemployment numbers are to be released at 9 00 am with 7.5 projected. The actual release at 9 00 am was 8.1 . The template would populate accordingly and can read 8.1 higher than projected. This textual message template is sent to the audio broadcast server as an audio output message. In this scenario a second text message template was populated for the same event to be disseminated through the Distribution Module or Server for visual reference. The example above can read Unemployment Release 8.1 higher than projected. 

The system also desirably provides warning messages prior to the number coming out letting users know something is scheduled and provides any projected numbers prior to release the market is expecting if available. The system can do so in both audio and text output data messages. If there is any textual commentary or an article that accompanies the number just released the system desirably automatically treats it just as any other news event so it s displayed with any underlying analytics. For example at 8 50 am when unemployment numbers are coming out at 9 00 am the system reports Warning unemployment numbers being released at 9 am today 7.5 unemployment rate projected and then at 8 59 35 am Warning Numbers Pending and then when the actual number comes out 8.1 higher than projected The numbers can also be indicated with a graphic indicator such as along with or within a colored directional arrow indicating the higher or lower than expected result.

It s common for number releases to be accompanied or closely follow published commentary. If applicable the system can automatically disseminate the structured news analytics associated with that release to help users quickly grasp deeper insight into the numbers just released.

Exemplary Corporate number releasing categories can include multiple global public companies EPS earnings per share EPS Adjusted Profit and Revenue. Exemplary economic number releasing categories can include without limitations both U.S. houses of Congress White House Fed Bundes bank ECB Governments of all G 7 nations Central Banks of all G 7 nations Government lock up room releases and embargoed news Central Bank decisions Industrial Output FX Reserves Money Supply Figures GDP Employment Figures credit ratings Corporate Earnings and or revenues European and North American private numbers such as U.S. Institute for Supply Management Housing Statistics CPI figures Worldwide Treasury Auctions anything extracted from a news article or commentary U.S. Department of Labor U.S. Department of Treasury US Department of Commerce The Conference Board National Association of Realtors USDA Statistics of Canada Bank of Canada Europe European Central Bank Peoples Bank of China Chinese Ministry of Commerce Bank of Japan Bank of Australia Bank of England Office for National Statistics Z.E.W Institute for Economic Research Info German Ministry of Economics Eurostat Govt. Indicator Numbers and Messages etc.

The system can use trading exchange market data to spot notable trading activities detect stocks moving on news and for price quote and volume referencing when building various textual message templates. The system automatically tracks thousands of assets to look for notable price and volume moves. When a notable move is detected an output data message is created such as Alert XYZ Spiking or Alert XYZ Running or Alert XYZ Jogging where Spiking moved instantly Running moving fast Jogging moving mediocre. A more informative example is Alert XYZ Spiking Higher Up 2.2 Percent Trading at 26.55 Heavy Volume. In one embodiment of the invention the system tracks the ticker symbols for X amount of minutes after a news article has been released. If notable price or volume actions are detected a textual message template is created for example Alert XYZ moving on news or Alert XYZ moving on news Up 2.2 Percent. 

Price quotes and volume information can automatically be pulled to populate fields within a textual message template that s news related. For example Breaking News ABC Spiking Higher Heavy Volume Trading at 605.45. The first two fields are from the news feed Breaking News and ABC while the rest of the string is considered Trading Exchange Market Data. Other notable trading activities that are monitored include without limitation key price levels support resistance levels various time period highs lows such as touching 2 week high significant stop orders intraday volume reports assets with unusual trading volume unusual options trading detected breakouts breakdowns advancing stocks declining stocks with volume reports high frequency surge detections etc.

The system desirably receives all incoming messages from the underlying exchanges it s subscribed to and processes the incoming messages and understands the priority levels. If the data is of high priority such as a circuit breaker trading halt alerts corporate action etc. the system knows that it needs to be further parsed and disseminated. Not all trading exchange message data reports are the same. Some are just machine readable text strings while others such as the Imbalances explained below are going to be XML or CVS files which contains more data complexities and require more steps to parse and disseminate.

The NYSE and NASDAQ exchanges both offer imbalances at certain times of the day. The example below is directed to end of day imbalance prior to the equity markets closing. To facilitate buyers and sellers the exchanges publish Market On Close or MOC orders at 2 45 pm 15 minutes before the cash close. The main function behind the exchange sharing this key data is to offset any heavy buying or selling which needs to happen at the close of the market. The exchanges may have an abundance of orders for several stocks that need to find liquidity on the other side. Understanding this data allows traders to participate with these liquidation needs.

In one embodiment of this invention the system connects to a Trading Exchange Message Data Report vendor subscriber feed ready to accept incoming data. The system receives Imbalance messages data and the system parses the Imbalance data. Parsed data is sent to the analysis module or server to be analyzed processed for liquidity buying or selling imbalance measurements and the analysis server populates textual message template with message of relevancy. The analysis server sends data to the audio broadcast server which generates speech synthesis and broadcasts to all connected end users. The audio broadcast server saves an audio copy of the speech synthesis broadcasted message to the database for copyright legal and general business purposes. The analysis module or server also sends processed data to the distribution server and saves a copy to the database for logging and searching capabilities. The distribution server sends formatted text and related visual graphics to all end users. The above example is desirably fully automated and also applies to other data types.

Indicators are considered close in comparison. On a more granular level Internal Market Data Indicators are made up of aggregated movement data collected from multiple securities not one to measure various types of market breadth and have their own ticker symbols. These formulas are calculated and processed by each vendor with each vendor supporting their own unique ticker symbols. The most popular breadth indicators could be TICK and TRIN. Technical Market Data Indicators are formulated from either multiple securities or just one security and do not have ticker symbols and are generally what s being charted along with an asset or assets. Technical Market Data Indicators are used in conjunction with other data to help validate or help provide perspective on a securities strength and direction. In one embodiment of this invention the system uses these indicators to help track relevant trading actions associated with the most popular widely watched assets.

The system can use the Technical Market Data Indicator by itself or in tandem with other data feeds such as Trading Exchange market Data or price. Trading Exchange Market Data in the example below.

If for example oil is spiking higher then the equity markets tend to sell off. A predetermined message template for oil and equities can be provided in the database and used as they become a focal point and are moving fast. This is similar to a news room that turns attention to a particular event and begins reporting relevance several times throughout the day.

The system can use Internal Market Data Indicators to alert confirm and help predict price action of the overall market. Several times a day the S P 500 TICK will hit extremes on the upside and on the downside. When these extreme highs and lows happen systems parameters are desirably triggered and a textual message template is pulled or created to disseminate in the same similar fashion as previous examples.

The system can also track volume for each tick index watched. When an extreme TICK is triggered the analysis module or server pulls that index volume aggregate to inform users of volume or breadth type light volume heavy volume . For example TICK upside extreme light volume or TICK downside extreme heavy volume. 

At specified times throughout the day the system can automatically report on the general volume breadth aggregates for that day in comparison to an average. For example NYSE and NASDAQ seeing average volumes or NYSE and NASDAQ seeing heavy Volumes. 

Using a combination of vendor solutions and system measurements and methods the system can alert or inform subscribers of possibly noteworthy market relevant information noteworthy events and emerging trends such as trending sentiments trending stocks trending topics trending conversations tied to events notable market data event extractions news events sentiment tied to events detected asset sentiments index sentiments volatility sentiment scores etc. associated social media related sources. Similar to the creation of textual message templates for various categories waiting to be populated with relevant data social media categories are no different. The database desirably includes a library of message templates that cover a multitude of categories and have specific parameters for which the system automatically looks for. The system administrator monitors and updates these parameters as necessary. For example the system can be instructed to automatically extract and emit the top 3 trending stocks from StockTwits and disseminate at any predetermined time. The output data message can read for example Top stocks trending today are XYZ ABC and LMNOP. 

In one embodiment of the invention if the analysis module or server validates the relevancy of an actionable signal just received then the analysis module or server will process the event accordingly. If high relevancy is yes then the data loads into a textual message template to be sent through the automated audio broadcast server and also disseminated through the distribution server for visual referencing. The subscriber will hear the alert and can confirm what was heard by reviewing the visual text and related graphics. Another example is when a new trend on StockTwits is detected the end user hears a synthetic voice broadcast announce New Trend Detection XYZ Trending XYZ Trending with this message also being processed through the distribution server to be disseminated for visual referencing.

In embodiments of this invention the method and system leverages a combination of vendor solutions and technologies to alert or inform our subscribers of what is consider noteworthy and relevant. Web scraping allows for data enrichment within various textual message templates and provide access to additional material found within the web using hyperlinks within the news data stream that subscribers may find useful. Below is one of many examples 

Thus the invention provides a method system and software for compiling sorting searching filtering referencing and manipulating news events data such as financial market related information to produce audio graphical and or textual message formats to help provide for faster human processing of real time market events within a graphical user interface GUI . The invention assists in filtering relevant data from the continuous broadcast of financial news and event information and includes different indicators to further parse and highlight relevant information.

It will be appreciated that details of the foregoing embodiments given for purposes of illustration are not to be construed as limiting the scope of this invention. Although only a few exemplary embodiments of this invention have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this invention. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention which is defined in the following claims and all equivalents thereto. Further it is recognized that many embodiments may be conceived that do not achieve all of the advantages of some embodiments particularly of the preferred embodiments yet the absence of a particular advantage shall not be construed to necessarily mean that such an embodiment is outside the scope of the present invention.

