---

title: Enforcing conditions of use associated with disparate data sets
abstract: Techniques are described herein that are capable of enforcing conditions of use associated with disparate data sets. For example, content may be published. Conditions of use that are associated with the published content may be specified. The published content may include disparate data sets. Each data set may be associated with its own condition(s) of use. The condition(s) of use associated with each data set may be enforced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09032546&OS=09032546&RS=09032546
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09032546
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131120
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 815 573 filed Jun. 15 2010 which is titled End User License Agreement On Demand and which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 312 364 filed Mar. 10 2010 which is titled End User License Agreement On Demand. The entire contents of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 815 573 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 312 364 are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to end user license agreements EULAs and more specifically to providing EULAs on demand for third party content.

Currently no cloud service or network service provider can effectively provide information as a service on any platform such that publishers developers and consumers subscribers can easily publish generate applications for and consume any type of data in a way that can be tracked audited for publishers developers and or consumers subscribers and such that publisher restrictions on the use of content can be enforced. Further restrictions on the use of content are typically negotiated by content negotiators e.g. attorneys . As such terms and conditions tend to be content specific and vary widely in language and complexity. As such no single system can currently receive and enforce the customized terms and conditions provided for disparate content. Additionally terms and conditions that are presumably similar or the same are often unrecognizable as such by a human or a single system processing and attempting to enforce the customized terms.

The above described deficiencies of today s services are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of one or more of the exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow.

Various approaches are described herein for among other things enforcing conditions of use associated with disparate data sets. An example method is described. In accordance with the method content is published to provide published content that includes disparate data sets. Conditions of use that are associated with the published content are specified. Each data set is associated with its own condition s of use. The condition s of use associated with each data set are enforced.

An example system is described. The system includes a publication module a condition generation module and an enforcement module. The publication module is configured to publish content. The condition generation module is configured to specify conditions of use that are associated with published content from the publication module. The published content includes disparate data sets. Each data set is associated with its own condition s of use. The enforcement module is configured to enforce the condition s of use that are associated with each data set.

An example computer readable storage medium is described. The computer readable storage medium has instructions stored thereon that when executed cause a processor to perform functions. The functions include publishing content to provide published content that includes disparate data sets. The functions further include specifying conditions of use that are associated with the published content. Each data set is associated with its own condition s of use. The functions further include enforcing the condition s of use that are associated with each data set.

Other embodiments and various non limiting examples scenarios and implementations are described in more detail below.

The following description contains context regarding potential non limiting infrastructure architectures and or associated services to further aid in understanding one or more of the above embodiments. Any one or more of any additional features described in this section can be accommodated in any one or more of the embodiments described above with respect to dynamically generating an end user license agreement EULA for third party content. While such combinations of embodiments or features are possible for the avoidance of doubt no embodiments set forth in the subject disclosure should be considered limiting on any other embodiments described herein.

In this regard various embodiments for the user friendly data platform for enabling information as a service from any platform is an infrastructure to enable consumers of data Information Workers IWs developers independent software vendors ISVs and consumers of data to transact in a simple cost effective and convenient manner. The infrastructure democratizes premium private and community public data in an affordable way to allow IWs to draw insights rapidly allows developers to build innovative apps using multiple sources of data in a creative manner and enables developers to monetize their efforts on any platform. For instance the infrastructure supports Pay Per Use as well as Subscription Pricing for Content Pay for Content retail price set by content owner Pay Data Fee Shipping and Handling and further supports Data fees as a brokerage fee on a per logical transaction basis per report per application program interface API per download etc. .

For Information Workers e.g. OFFICE SQL SERVER MICROSOFT DYNAMICS users the infrastructure supports subscriptions to allow for future enterprise architecture EA integration as well as predictable spend requirements as well as caching to support on and off premise Business Intelligence BI as well as high performance computing HPC workloads . Thus alternatives include content priced per user per month which may or may not bundle to deliver content packs or per transaction pricing e.g. allowing cloud reporting business intelligence on demand pricing to eliminate the need to move large amounts of data while allowing per usage pricing or vertical apps via report galleries.

For data owners any data type any cloud using any platform the infrastructure becomes a value proposition to incent sales within any particular desired platform auto scaling higher level service level agreement SLA possibilities at no additional cost. For some non limiting examples data can be secure and associated data in the following domains Location aware services data Commercial and residential real estate Financial data and services etc. A non limiting scenario may include delivery of data to top 30 non governmental organization NGO datasets. In addition the infrastructure may include the ability to showcase BI visualization through BING for information as a service HPC etc. Vertical application opportunities exist as well.

In one non limiting embodiment the data brokerage can be analogized to conventional brick and mortar strategies For instance capacity can be represented as shelf space e.g. a mix of structured and unstructured blob data cost of goods COGS can be represented as square footage e.g. platform dependency bandwidth and content can be represented as merchandise e.g. optimize data owners to cover COGS maximize profits from IWs and developers . In various embodiments an onboarding process can be implemented with quality bars for data and services as well as accommodation of service level agreements SLAs .

In this regard some key parties in the infrastructure include data owners the application developers ISVs and the consumers information workers. In general data owners are entities who want to charge for data or who want to provide data for free for other reasons or enforce other conditions over the data. In turn application developers ISVs are entities who want to monetize their application e.g. through advertising direct payments indirect payments etc. or provide their application for free for some beneficial reason to such entities. Information workers and consumers are those who can use the raw data or those who want to use an application provided by the application developers.

As supplemental services to the data billing and discovery services can include online billing e.g. MICROSOFT Online Customer Portal MOCP or discovery services e.g. pinpoint and authentication services can include credentials management e.g. MICROSOFT Windows Live ID or content authentication e.g. authenticated content services ACS . Accounts services can include logging audit services or account management . Management and operations services can include an operations dashboard service and network operations service e.g. Gomez.

The system can include a processor a publication module a memory and a condition generation module . In some embodiments the system can also include a user interface and or an enforcement module .

The processor can be configured to execute computer readable instructions stored in the memory and perform one or more functions of the system described herein.

The publication module can be configured to published content and output the published content from the publication module for experience by a consumer . The published content can include but is not limited to data in the data stores . . . and or commercial data owned or controlled by owners . In various embodiments the owners can be third party content owners.

The condition generation module can be configured to generate a representation of one or more conditions associated with use of the published content. The representation can be a EULA on demand generated visually and or in audio format for review and acceptance by the consumer prior to experience of the published content by the consumer .

In some embodiments the one or more conditions included in the EULA can be or be indicative of disallowed activity in some embodiments. By way of example but not limitation the one or more conditions can be indicative of disallowed printing downloading dissemination rendering copying activity or any other disallowed activity.

In some embodiments some of the conditions can be canonicalized such that similar or the same language is used for similar or the same disallowed activity. In some embodiments some of the conditions can be stored in the system as non standard terms that are not canonicalized. Such non standard terms can be included in the EULA using the free form text input to the system by a third party content owner generating the EULA for the published content.

Because the sentences and or phrases making up the conditions can be canonicalized the EULA conditions for any number of different media owned by different third parties can have a recognizable degree of uniformity. As such the complexity of terms and presentation format in the EULAs output from the system for different third parties can be reduced.

In some embodiments the condition generation module can include or be operably coupled to a taxonomy module not shown configured to classify the one or more conditions. The conditions can be classified in a number of ways as described below including but not limited to according to a type of the content a disallowed activity and or can include a hierarchy of condition or term definitions.

In various embodiments the conditions can be classified by the type of the published content. For example particular conditions can be typically employed for typical types of content. Such particular conditions can be classified together. By way of example but not limitation conditions that are typically employed for electronic books can be classified in one category conditions that are typically employed for downloadable music can be classified in another category and conditions that are typically employed for films can be classified in another category.

Accordingly selection of the EULA condition can be based on an input solely indicative of the published content type. In some embodiments selection of the EULA condition can include inferring a EULA condition typically suitable for inclusion in a EULA for content of the type indicated. Accordingly EULAs can be dynamically generated to include conditions typically suitable for a particular content type thereby increasing the likelihood of generating a more complete EULA while expending less financial and time resources.

In various embodiments the conditions can be classified by the disallowed activity. For example conditions related to disallowed printing and copying can be classified in a first category while conditions related to disallowed dissemination and downloading can be provided in a second category. As such the categories can be arranged in one or more buckets that can accommodate various different conditions.

For example selecting a EULA condition can be based on a disallowed manner of using particular content. By way of example but not limitation the selection can be indicative of a maximum number of times that the published content can be printed and or whether printing privileges are provided to the consumer in general. The EULA condition can therefore be a sentence or phrase providing simple language to the consumer regarding the number of times that the content can be printed and or that the content cannot be printed.

In some embodiments the system can be configured to receive one or more inputs from a third party content owner and the condition generation module can determine appropriate conditions with which to publish the EULA on demand. In some embodiments the conditions can be determined by querying over the conditions using OData or other querying protocols.

In some embodiments the conditions can be determined based on mapping semantics pattern recognition or other techniques for selecting data that corresponds to an input.

The inputs can be received via the user interface communicatively coupled to the system . In some embodiments the user interface particularly or the system generally can be configured to receive the input for generating the EULA on demand.

The input or selection can be a free form selection received in a text box displayed via the user interface and or a selection of a menu option displayed via the user interface . In some embodiments the user interface can receive audio selections from third parties. The selections can be indicative of disallowed activity and or indicative of the content type in various embodiments. In some embodiments the selections can be indicative of the identity of the third party for embodiments wherein the third party chooses to generate EULAs that are substantially the same for all of the published content owned by the third parties .

The system can include an enforcement module in some embodiments. The enforcement module can be configured to enforce the one or more conditions associated with the published content and on any platform. In some embodiments enforcing the one or more conditions of use can include disallowing a disallowed activity indicated by the one or more conditions. In various embodiments the enforcement module can enforce the conditions of the EULA to prevent disallowed activity over MICROSOFT OFFICE platforms WINDOWS platforms SQL platforms MAC platforms and or OPENOFFICE.ORG platforms.

The enforcement module can perform the enforcement via an information rights management module not shown in some embodiments. The information rights management module can be included within or be operably coupled to the enforcement module .

Referring to memory in some embodiments the memory can be a computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that when executed cause a processor to perform a method. The method not shown can include displaying an option selection representation via a user interface wherein the option selection representation is associated with options for use of published content. The method can also include receiving an input via the user interface and identifying one or more conditions for use with the published content based at least on the input wherein the one or more conditions are end user license conditions.

In some embodiments of the computer readable storage medium the option selection representation comprises a text box and wherein the receiving the input comprises receiving a free form selection input at the text box. In some embodiments of the computer readable storage medium the option selection representation comprises menu of options and wherein the receiving the input comprises receiving a selection indicative of at least one option of the menu of options.

In some embodiments of the computer readable storage medium the method also includes receiving a selection of a type of the published content wherein the displaying the option selection representation is based on the receiving the selection of the type of the published content.

In some embodiments of the computer readable storage medium the method also includes generating an end user license agreement including the end user license conditions. In some embodiments of the computer readable storage medium the end user license conditions are canonicalized standard terms.

At method can include publishing content to a consumer. The content can be any type of content owned by a third party including but not limited to music electronic books films video games website or the like.

At method can include receiving an input indicative of a condition of use for the published content. The input can be received from an owner of the published content. The input can indicate a type of content a disallowed activity and or an owner of the content in various embodiments.

At method can include selecting a condition for the EULA based on the input received. Selecting the condition can be performing through any number of methods including but not limited to querying the one or more conditions to determine the condition that most closely relates to the input mapping pattern recognition semantics or the like.

The conditions can be standard terms that are canonicalized or non standard terms that are not canonicalized. The non standard terms can result from free form text inputs or audio inputs by the content owner.

The conditions can be classified according to a taxonomy. The taxonomy can be based on a type of the content the disallowed activity and or the owner of the content. In various embodiments the disallowed activity can be associated with rendering printing derivation dissemination or copying.

At method can include outputting a representation of one or more conditions to a consumer or subscriber. The representation can be the EULA on demand in some embodiments. The representation can be visual and or audio in different embodiments.

At method can include enforcing the conditions of the EULA. Enforcing the conditions of the EULA can comprise monitoring the use of the published content by the consumer and disallowed forbidden activity. In some embodiments disallowing can include operating an information management module to prevent the disallowed activity.

In some embodiments the option selection representation can include a text box and the input is a free form selection input at the text box. Identifying one or more options can include selecting the one or more options associated with the free form selection. In some embodiments displaying the option selection representation can include displaying the one or more options as a menu of options. The input can be a menu selection from the menu of options.

At method can include selecting one or more conditions based at least on the input. The one or more conditions can be classified according to a taxonomy. In some embodiments some of the conditions can be standard terms that are canonicalized while some of the conditions can be non standard terms that are not canonicalized.

Selecting the one or more conditions can be performed by any known techniques including querying. Pattern recognition semantics or the like can be employed.

At method can include displaying a representation of the one or more conditions selected. The representation can be the EULA on demand in some embodiments. The conditions selected can be displayed via a user interface to a third party content owner prior to storage and or display to a consumer using the published content.

In some embodiments a user interface can be provided to facilitate generation of the end user license agreement. In some embodiments the user interface can be configured to display an option selection representation. The option selection representation can include information indicative of one or more options for use of published content.

The user interface can also be configured to receive an input selecting at least one of the one or more options for use. The input can be received by an owner of the published content and or the publisher of the content.

The user interface can also be configured to display one or more conditions for inclusion in a EULA. The conditions can be based at least on the input that is received.

The user interface can also be configured to display a representation of the EULA. The representation can be visual or audio in various embodiments.

In some embodiments the option selection representation comprises a text box. In these embodiments the input received can be free form text. In some embodiments in addition to or in lieu of the text box the option selection representative can include a menu of options for use of the published content. The options can be selectable by the user providing the input.

In various embodiments the displayed one or more conditions for inclusion in the EULA can be canonicalized standard terms and or conditions that are not canonicalized. For example the conditions that are not canonicalized can be the free form text that can be received via the text box.

The user interface can provide visual and or audio displays. In some embodiments the user interface can receive inputs through inputs provided at the user interface screen and or through audio signals via voice commands provided to the user interface. In some embodiments the user interface is a touchscreen user interface.

The option display region can comprise information indicative of published content or use of the published content. In some embodiments the information indicative of the published content is one or more types of published content. The one or more types of published content can include music an electronic book a film a television show or a video game.

In some embodiments the information indicative of the use of the published content is one or more types of disallowed activity which can be provided at region . The types of disallowed activity can be indicative of at least one of editing privileges printing copying writing privileges or re distribution or dissemination rights.

The input region can be configured to display a region for receiving an input. The input region can include a text box or a selectable menu of options. The text box can be configured to receive free form text in some embodiments. In some embodiment the input region and or the surface of the UI in totality can have touchscreen capabilities. In some embodiments the selectable menu of options can be as shown at region .

The preview region can be configured to display a preview of one or more conditions for inclusion in an end user license agreement. In various embodiments at least one of the one or more conditions is canonicalized standard terms. In various embodiments at least one of the one or more conditions is not canonicalized standard terms and is the free form text. In some embodiments the preview region can be configured to display a preview of the end user license agreement .

In some embodiments a UI not shown configured to generate EULA can include an option display region that comprises information indicative of published content or use of the published content. The EULA UI can also include an input region configured to display a region for receiving an input and a preview region configured to display a preview of one or more conditions for inclusion in an end user license agreement. The preview region can be configured to display the end user license agreement.

In some embodiments one or more of the one or more conditions can be canonicalized standard terms. In some embodiments one or more of the one or more conditions is not canonicalized standard terms and are the free form text.

In some embodiments the option display region comprises information indicative of the published content and the information indicative of the published content is one or more types of published content.

In some embodiments the option display region comprises information indicative of the use of the published content and the information indicative of the use of the published content is one or more types of disallowed activity. In some embodiments one or more types of disallowed activity is indicative of at least one of editing privileges writing privileges or re distribution rights.

In some embodiments one or more types of published content comprises at least one of music an electronic book a film a television show or a video game.

In some embodiments the input region comprises a text box. The text box can be configured to receive free form text. In some embodiments the input region comprises a selectable menu of options.

The content owner can provide selections indicative of options of use for published content owned by the content owner. The selections can be provided at a UI accessible by the content owner.

The content owner can select one or more types of disallowed activity from the UI . In the embodiment shown the disallowed activity is editing the published content and copying the published content. As such the content owner has selected read only privileges and no copying privileges to be associated with the published content.

The selected options for use can be received by the platform independent engine. The platform independent engine can include a condition generation module for selecting one or more conditions which can be canonicalized as shown in or not canonicalized . The platform independent engine can include a condition generation module . The one or more conditions can be classified according to a selected taxonomy which can be based on the disallowed activity the type of the published content the identity of the content owner or otherwise. The condition generation module can select the one or more conditions associated with the options for use from the data stores . . . .

The EULA generation module can receive the conditions for the EULA and generate the EULA including the conditions received. The consumer platform can receive the EULA and display the EULA to the consumer.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments of methods and devices for an infrastructure for information as a service from any platform and related embodiments described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Each object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each object etc. or computing objects or devices etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of an infrastructure for information as a service from any platform as provided in accordance with various embodiments.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the techniques as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and objects etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate an infrastructure for information as a service from any platform and related techniques as described herein for one or more embodiments.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the user profiling can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the client computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as HTTP. Servers etc. may also serve as client computing objects or devices etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned various embodiments described herein apply to any device wherein it may be desirable to implement one or pieces of an infrastructure for information as a service from any platform. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments described herein i.e. anywhere that a device may provide some functionality in connection with an infrastructure for information as a service from any platform. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the embodiments of the subject disclosure may be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction.

Although not required any of the embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the operable component s . Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that network interactions may be practiced with a variety of computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing one or more embodiments herein can include a general purpose computing device in the form of a handheld computer . Components of handheld computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface .

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices networks and advertising architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to publish build applications for or consume data in connection with interactions with a cloud or network service.

There are multiple ways of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use the infrastructure for information as a service from any platform. Embodiments may be contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that facilitates provision of an infrastructure for information as a service from any platform in accordance with one or more of the described embodiments. Various implementations and embodiments described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

While in some embodiments a client side perspective is illustrated it is to be understood for the avoidance of doubt that a corresponding server perspective exists or vice versa. Similarly where a method is practiced a corresponding device can be provided having storage and at least one processor configured to practice that method via one or more components.

While the various embodiments have been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. Still further one or more aspects of the above described embodiments may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be affected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

