---

title: Hepsin inhibitors
abstract: Compositions and methods are provided for preventing or attenuating cancer progression or blocking metastasis in prostate cancer and other cancers (e.g., ovarian carcinoma, endometrial cancer, renal cell carcinoma) that are characterized by overexpression of the type II cell surface serine protease hepsin, based on the discovery of multiple disclosed compounds having activity as specific hepsin inhibitors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08664266&OS=08664266&RS=08664266
owner: Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center
number: 08664266
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130430
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 997 465 filed Feb. 25 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 450 334 which is a 371 filing of PCT US2009 044905 filed May 21 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 060 756.

This invention was made in part with government support under Grant No. R01 CA102365 awarded by the National Cancer Institute National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The Sequence Listing associated with this application is provided in text format in lieu of a paper copy and is hereby incorporated by reference into the specification. The name of the text file containing the Sequence Listing is 360056401C1 SEQUENCE LISTING.txt. The text file is 36 KB was created on Apr. 28 2013 and is being submitted electronically via EFS Web.

The presently disclosed invention embodiments relate to compositions and methods for the treatment of cancer. In particular the present embodiments relate to preventing or attenuating cancer progression or blocking metastasis in a subject known to have or suspected of being at risk for having prostate cancer ovarian carcinoma endometrial cancer or renal cell carcinoma by administering a hepsin inhibitor as described herein.

Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in United States males with an estimated 186 320 new cases in 2008 accounting for 25 of cancer incidence and 10 of cancer deaths Cancer Facts and Figures 2008 Atlanta Ga. . Prostate cancer develops slowly in the majority of cases however progression to metastasis is highly lethal and can occur rapidly. Significant progress has been made in recent years in the understanding of molecular mechanisms responsible for prostate cancer initiation and progression but therapeutic approaches for the treatment of prostate cancer remain limited. Treatments to prevent metastasis include radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy both of which carry significant risk to urinary and sexual function. Metastatic prostate cancer can be treated with androgen ablation therapy but almost uniformly results in hormone refractory disease leading to mortality. Although localized prostate tumors are usually curable diagnosis of prostate cancer remains a difficult inexact process and treatment can result in side effects that significantly impact quality of life The Prostate Specific Antigen PSA Test Questions and Answers 2007 U.S. National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. Early Prostate Cancer Questions and Answers 2007 U.S. National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. . Metastatic prostate cancer is highly resistant to therapeutic intervention and is almost uniformly lethal. Therefore the development of effective novel targeted therapies to inhibit prostate cancer progression and metastasis will have a significant impact on prostate cancer mortality.

Multiple genetic and epigenetic changes take place during human prostate cancer initiation and progression Vasioukhin 2004 3 1394 1397 Bradford et al. 2006 24 538 551 . Hepsin HPN is one of the most upregulated genes in human prostate cancer and encodes a type II transmembrane serine protease that is overexpressed in up to 90 of prostate tumors with levels often increased 10 fold Magee et al. 2001 61 5692 5696 Dhanasekaran et al. 2001 412 822 826 Stamey et al. 2001 166 2171 2177 . Hepsin is upregulated early in prostate cancer initiation and is maintained at high levels throughout progression and metastasis. In addition hepsin is also overexpressed in ovarian and renal carcinomas Tanimoto et al. 1997 57 2884 2887 Zacharski et al. 1998 79 876 877 Betsunoh et al. 2007 98 4 491 8 and in endometrial cancer Matsuo et al. 2008 28 1A 159 64 .

Significant evidence indicates that hepsin overexpression plays an important role in the promotion of prostate cancer progression and metastasis. Hepsin upregulation in a transgenic mouse model of localized prostate cancer promoted progression causing the transition of nonmetastatic cancer into an aggressive carcinoma with metastasis to bone liver and lung Klezovitch et al. 2004 6 185 195 . The cellular context and level of hepsin expression appear to be important to the phenotype as high levels of hepsin overexpression in a prostate cancer cell line reduced cell proliferation and invasion Srikantan et al. 2002 62 6812 6816 . While the molecular mechanisms responsible for hepsin function in prostate cancer in vivo are unknown in vitro evidence indicates that hepsin can activate pro urokinase plasminogen activator pro uPA and pro hepatocyte growth factor pro HGF Moran et al. 2006 281 30439 30446 Kirchhofer et al. 2005 579 1945 1950 . Activation of the uPA cell surface serine protease system and HGF Met scattering pathway may be responsible for promotion of metastasis by hepsin and is consistent with the observed basement membrane disruption in mouse prostates overexpressing hepsin Klezovitch et al. 2004 6 185 195 .

Protease targeted drugs have proven to be clinically useful for treatment of HIV and hypertension and have shown potential in the treatment of cancer obesity cardiovascular inflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases Fear et al. 2007 113 354 368 . For example WX UK1 is a potent small molecule inhibitor of uPA developed by Wilex and has shown potent antitumor and antimetastasis activity in a rat breast cancer model Abbenante et al. 2005 1 71 104 . WX UK1 has completed phase Ib trials in patients with solid tumors and is currently in combination phase I trials with capecitabine in patients with breast cancer and other solid tumors.

Despite such advances as the recognition of hepsin upregulation in prostate cancer ovarian carcinoma endometrial cancer and renal cell carcinoma neither this example of cancer related aberrant gene expression nor other potential targets for anti cancer therapeutic intervention have yielded safe and effective therapies to block cancer progression or prevent metastasis. For example invasive or micrometastatic prostate cancers are largely unresponsive to standard cytotoxic drugs used in other areas of oncology e.g. DNA binding or DNA disrupting agents and use of these cytotoxic agents is generally accompanied by a host of undesirable side effects associated with their effects on normal healthy tissues. The unusual androgen dependence of prostate tumors has made androgen ablation therapy a temporarily effective clinical strategy for management of prostate cancer but androgen independent tumor recurrence within a median of two to three years is common and is typically untreatable Feldman et al. 2001 1 34 45 .

Clearly there remains a significant unmet need for more and better anti cancer agents including agents that are capable of preventing cancer progression and or blocking metastasis and preferably further including agents having little or no cytotoxicity toward non malignant cells and that can be conveniently administered. Effective agents to prevent disease progression would reduce the need for surgical or radiation based therapies and could have a significant impact on prostate cancer related mortality. The present invention addresses these needs and offers other related advantages.

In one aspect there is provided by the present invention a method for preventing or attenuating cancer progression or blocking metastasis in a subject known to have or suspected of being at risk for having prostate cancer ovarian carcinoma endometrial cancer or renal cell carcinoma comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a hepsin inhibitor that comprises at least one compound of formulae I XIV 

According to certain embodiments cancer progression or metastasis is substantially impaired. In certain embodiments the subject has or is suspected of being at risk for having prostate cancer. In certain further embodiments the subject has prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia prostate confined non invasive low grade cancer prostate confined invasive cancer or metastatic prostate cancer. In certain other embodiments the subject has or is suspected of being at risk for having ovarian cancer. In certain further embodiments the subject has stage I stage II stage III stage IV or recurrent ovarian cancer. In certain other embodiments the subject has or is suspected of being at risk for having renal cell carcinoma. In certain further embodiments the subject has stage I stage II stage III or stage IV renal cell carcinoma. In certain other embodiments the subject has or is suspected of being at risk for having endometrial cancer. In certain further embodiments the subject has stage I stage II stage III or stage IV endometrial cancer.

In certain embodiments the hepsin inhibitor is administered orally parenterally intraperitoneally intravenously intraarterially transdermally sublingually subcutaneously intramuscularly rectally transbuccally intranasally liposomally via inhalation intraoccularly via local delivery subcutaneously intraadiposally intraarticularly or intrathecally.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of inhibiting hepsin proteolytic activity on a cell surface comprising contacting i a cell that comprises a cell surface hepsin polypeptide and ii a hepsin inhibitor under conditions and for a time sufficient for the hepsin inhibitor to interact specifically with the cell surface hepsin polypeptide and thereby inhibiting hepsin proteolytic activity on the cell surface wherein the cell surface hepsin polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of i a cell surface polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in any one of SEQ ID NOS 1 3 6 and 9 NP892028 NP002142 BC025716 AAI38810 AAB4221 ii a cell surface polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 85 90 or 95 identical to the polypeptide of i and that is capable of specific enzymatic cleavage of a chromogenic serine protease substrate that comprises L pyroglutamyl L prolyl L arginine p nitroaniline hydrochloride Glu Pro Arg pNA and iii a cell surface polypeptide that comprises a hepsin catalytic domain or a functional fragment thereof the hepsin catalytic domain or functional fragment thereof comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80 85 90 or 95 identical to the amino acid sequence set forth in any one of SEQ ID NOS 5 8 and 11 and that is capable of specific enzymatic cleavage of a chromogenic serine protease substrate that comprises L pyroglutamyl L prolyl L arginine p nitroaniline hydrochloride pyroGlu Pro Arg pNA and wherein the hepsin inhibitor comprises at least one compound of forumulae I XIV as described above. In a further embodiment the cell is a cancer cell that is selected from a prostate cancer cell an ovarian carcinoma cell an endometrial cancer cell and a renal carcinoma cell.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of inhibiting hepsin proteolytic activity comprising contacting a hepsin polypeptide and a hepsin inhibitor under conditions and for a time sufficient for the hepsin inhibitor to interact specifically with the hepsin polypeptide wherein the hepsin polypeptide is selected from i a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in any one of SEQ ID NOS 1 3 6 and 9 NP892028 NP002142 BC025716 AAI38810 AAB4221 ii a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 85 90 or 95 identical to the polypeptide of i and that is capable of specific enzymatic cleavage of a chromogenic serine protease substrate that comprises L pyroglutamyl L prolyl L arginine p nitroaniline hydrochloride Glu Pro Arg pNA and iii a polypeptide that comprises a hepsin catalytic domain or a functional fragment thereof said hepsin catalytic domain or functional fragment thereof comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80 85 90 or 95 identical to the amino acid sequence set forth in any one of SEQ ID NOS 5 8 and 11 and that is capable of specific enzymatic cleavage of a chromogenic serine protease substrate that comprises L pyroglutamyl L prolyl L arginine p nitroaniline hydrochloride pyroGlu Pro Arg pNA and wherein the hepsin inhibitor comprises at least one compound of formulae I XIV as described above.

In certain further embodiments of the methods described herein the subject is a human. In certain other embodiments the subject is a mammal which in certain further embodiments is selected from a non human primate a mouse a rat a rabbit a dog a cat a hamster a gerbil a guinea pig a goat a sheep a bovine a swine and a horse.

These and other aspects of the invention will be evident upon reference to the following detailed description and attached drawings. All of the U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety as if each was incorporated individually. Aspects of the invention can be modified if necessary to employ concepts of the various patents applications and publications to provide yet further embodiments of the invention.

The presently disclosed invention embodiments relate to the first identification of small molecule compounds that specifically inhibit hepsin catalytic activity and that may be used as therapeutic agents and or as lead compounds to develop targeted drugs to prevent or attenuate cancer progression or to block metastasis in a cancer that is characterized by hepsin overexpression e.g. hepsin expression levels that are increased in a statistically significant manner relative to the expression levels in corresponding cells or tissues that are known to be disease free . Preferred embodiments thus relate to prostate cancer ovarian carcinoma endometrial cancer and or renal cell carcinoma in each of which as noted above hepsin overexpression has been detected.

As described in greater detail hereinbelow sixteen compounds have unexpectedly been identified that potently and specifically inhibit hepsin proteolytic activity including four compounds that are able to attenuate hepsin dependent pericellular proteolytic activity with low or no general cellular toxicity and two compounds that surprisingly are already established drugs for human use with known oral dosing strategies for indications entirely unrelated to cancer. These newly identified small molecules may find use as cancer therapeutics and or as lead compounds for generation of potent and specific drugs for the treatment of human cancers and in particular for treating prostate cancer and or other cancers that are characterized by hepsin overexpression such as ovarian carcinoma endometrial cancer and or renal cell carcinoma.

Certain chemical groups named herein may be preceded by a shorthand notation indicating the total number of carbon atoms that are to be found in the indicated chemical group. For example C Calkyl describes an alkyl group as defined below having a total of 7 to 12 carbon atoms and C Ccycloalkylalkyl describes a cycloalkylalkyl group as defined below having a total of 4 to 12 carbon atoms. The total number of carbons in the shorthand notation does not include carbons that may exist in substituents of the group described.

In addition to the foregoing as used in the specification and appended claims unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated 

 Alkyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms containing no unsaturation having from one to twelve carbon atoms preferably one to eight carbon atoms or one to six carbon atoms and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl 1 methylethyl iso propyl n butyl n pentyl 1 1 dimethylethyl t butyl 3 methylhexyl 2 methylhexyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkyl group may be optionally substituted by one of the following groups alkyl alkenyl halo haloalkenyl cyano nitro aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl oxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 to 2 S O OR where t is 1 to 2 S O R where p is 0 to 2 and S O N R where t is 1 to 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl and each Ris alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkenyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms containing at least one double bond having from two to twelve carbon atoms preferably two to eight carbon atoms and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond e.g. ethenyl prop 1 enyl but 1 enyl pent 1 enyl penta 1 4 dienyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkenyl group may be optionally substituted by one of the following groups alkyl alkenyl halo haloalkenyl cyano nitro aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl oxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 to 2 S O OR where t is 1 to 2 S O R where p is 0 to 2 and S O N R where t is 1 to 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl and each Ris alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkynyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical group comprising solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms containing at least one triple bond optionally containing at least one double bond having from two to twelve carbon atoms preferably two to eight carbon atoms and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond for example ethynyl propynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkynyl group may be optionally substituted by one or more of the following substituents alkyl alkenyl halo haloalkenyl cyano nitro aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl oxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 to 2 S O OR where t is 1 to 2 S O R where p is 0 to 2 and S O N R where t is 1 to 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl and each Ris alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkylene or alkylene chain refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen containing no unsaturation and having from one to twelve carbon atoms e.g. methylene ethylene propylene n butylene and the like. The alkylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule through a single bond and to the radical group through a single bond. The points of attachment of the alkylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the radical group can be through one carbon or any two carbons within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkylene chain may be optionally substituted by one of the following groups alkyl alkenyl halo haloalkenyl cyano nitro aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl oxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 to 2 S O OR where t is 1 to 2 S O R where p is 0 to 2 and S O N R where t is 1 to 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl and each Ris alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkenylene or alkenylene chain refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen containing at least one double bond and having from two to twelve carbon atoms e.g. ethenylene propenylene n butenylene and the like. The alkenylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule through a single bond and to the radical group through a double bond or a single bond. The points of attachment of the alkenylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the radical group can be through one carbon or any two carbons within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkenylene chain may be optionally substituted by one of the following groups alkyl alkenyl halo haloalkenyl cyano nitro aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl oxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 to 2 S O OR where t is 1 to 2 S O R where p is 0 to 2 and S O N R where t is 1 to 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl and each Ris alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkynylene or alkynylene chain refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen containing at least one triple bond and having from two to twelve carbon atoms e.g. propynylene n butynylene and the like. The alkynylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule through a single bond and to the radical group through a double bond or a single bond. The points of attachment of the alkynylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the radical group can be through one carbon or any two carbons within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkynylene chain may be optionally substituted by one of the following groups alkyl alkenyl halo haloalkenyl cyano nitro aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl oxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 to 2 S O OR where t is 1 to 2 S O R where p is 0 to 2 and S O N R where t is 1 to 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl and each Ris alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkoxy refers to a radical of the formula ORwhere Ris an alkyl radical as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. The alkyl part of the alkoxy radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkyl radical.

 Alkoxyalkyl refers to a radical of the formula R O R where Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris an alkyl radical as defined above. The oxygen atom may be bonded to any carbon in the alkylene chain and in the alkyl radical. The alkyl part of the alkoxyalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkyl group. The alkylene chain part of the alkoxyalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkylene chain.

 Aryl refers to a hydrocarbon ring system radical comprising hydrogen 6 to 18 carbon atoms and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this invention the aryl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may included fused or bridged ring systems. Aryl radicals include but are not limited to aryl radicals derived from aceanthrylene acenaphthylene acephenanthrylene anthracene azulene benzene chrysene fluoranthene fluorene as indacene s indacene indane indene naphthalene phenalene phenanthrene pleiadene pyrene and triphenylene. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term aryl or the prefix ar such as in aralkyl is meant to include aryl radicals optionally substituted by one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl akenyl halo haloalkyl haloalkenyl cyano nitro aryl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl R OR R OC O R R N R R C O R R C O OR R C O N R R N R C O OR R N R C O R R N R S O R where t is 1 to 2 R N C OR R R S O OR where t is 1 to 2 R S O R where p is 0 to 2 and R S O N R where t is 1 to 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl each Ris independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain and each Ris alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Aralkyl refers to a radical of the formula R Rwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris one or more aryl radicals as defined above for example benzyl diphenylmethyl and the like. The alkylene chain part of the aralkyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for an alkylene chain. The aryl part of the aralkyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for an aryl group.

 Aralkenyl refers to a radical of the formula R Rwhere Ris an alkenylene chain as defined above and Ris one or more aryl radicals as defined above. The aryl part of the aralkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for an aryl group. The alkenylene chain part of the aralkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkenylene group.

 Aralkynyl refers to a radical of the formula R Rwhere Ris an alkynylene chain as defined above and Ris one or more aryl radicals as defined above. The aryl part of the aralkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for an aryl group. The alkynylene chain part of the aralkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkynylene chain.

 Cycloalkyl refers to a stable non aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms which may include fused or bridged ring systems having from three to fifteen carbon atoms preferably having from three to ten carbon atoms and which is saturated or unsaturated and attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. Monocyclic radicals include for example cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptly and cyclooctyl. Polycyclic radicals include for example adamantyl norbornyl decalinyl 7 7 dimethyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl and the like. Unless otherwise stated specifically in the specification the term cycloalkyl is meant to include cycloalkyl radicals which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl halo haloalkyl haloalkenyl cyano nitro oxo aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl R OR R OC O R R N R R C O R R C O OR R C O N R R N R C O OR R N R C O R R N R S O R where t is 1 to 2 R N C OR R R S O OR where t is 1 to 2 R S O R where p is 0 to 2 and R S O N R where t is 1 to 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl each Ris independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain and each Ris alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Cycloalkylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a cycloalkyl radical as defined above. The alkylene chain and the cycloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above.

 Cycloalkylalkenyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkenylene chain as defined above and Ris a cycloalkyl radical as defined above. The alkenylene chain and the cycloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above.

 Cycloalkylalkynyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkynylene radical as defined above and Ris a cycloalkyl radical as defined above. The alkynylene chain and the cycloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above.

 Fused refers to any ring system described herein which is fused to an existing ring structure in the compounds of the invention. When the fused ring system is a heterocyclyl or a heteroaryl any carbon atom on the existing ring structure which becomes part of the fused ring system may be replaced with a nitrogen atom.

 Haloalkyl refers to an alkyl radical as defined above that is substituted by one or more halo radicals as defined above e.g. trifluoromethyl difluoromethyl trichloromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 1 fluoromethyl 2 fluoroethyl 3 bromo 2 fluoropropyl 1 bromomethyl 2 bromoethyl and the like. The alkyl part of the haloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkyl group.

 Haloalkenyl refers to an alkenyl radical as defined above that is substituted by one or more halo radicals as defined above. The alkenyl part of the haloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkenyl group.

 Haloalkynyl refers to an alkynyl radical as defined above that is substituted by one or more halo radicals as defined above. The alkynyl part of the haloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkynyl group.

 Heterocyclyl refers to a stable 3 to 18 membered non aromatic ring radical which consists of two to twelve carbon atoms and from one to six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the heterocyclyl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heterocyclyl radical may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized and the heterocyclyl radical may be partially or fully saturated. Examples of such heterocyclyl radicals include but are not limited to dioxolanyl thienyl 1 3 dithianyl decahydroisoquinolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl octahydroindolyl octahydroisoindolyl 2 oxopiperazinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl oxazolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl 4 piperidonyl pyrrolidinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrazolidinyl quinuclidinyl thiazolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl trithianyl tetrahydropyranyl thiomorpholinyl thiamorpholinyl 1 oxo thiomorpholinyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term heterocyclyl is meant to include heterocyclyl radicals as defined above which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl halo haloalkyl haloalkenyl cyano oxo thioxo nitro aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl R OR R OC O R R N R R C O R R C O OR R C O N R R N R C O OR R N R C O R R N R S O R where t is 1 to 2 R N C OR R R S O OR where t is 1 to 2 R S O R where p is 0 to 2 and R S O N R where t is 1 to 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl alkenyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl each Ris independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain and each Ris alkyl alkenyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 N heterocyclyl refers to a heterocyclyl radical as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heterocyclyl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heterocyclyl radical. An N heterocyclyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for heterocyclyl radicals.

 Heterocyclylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a heterocyclyl radical as defined above and if the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen containing heterocyclyl the heterocyclyl may be attached to the alkyl radical at the nitrogen atom. The alkylene chain of the heterocyclylalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkyene chain. The heterocyclyl part of the heterocyclylalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heterocyclyl group.

 Heterocyclylalkenyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkenylene chain as defined above and Ris a heterocyclyl radical as defined above and if the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen containing heterocyclyl the heterocyclyl may be attached to the alkenylene chain at the nitrogen atom. The alkenylene chain of the heterocyclylalkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkenylene chain. The heterocyclyl part of the heterocyclylalkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heterocyclyl group.

 Heterocyclylalkynyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkynylene chain as defined above and Ris a heterocyclyl radical as defined above and if the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen containing heterocyclyl the heterocyclyl may be attached to the alkynyl radical at the nitrogen atom. The alkynylene chain part of the heterocyclylalkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkynylene chain. The heterocyclyl part of the heterocyclylalkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heterocyclyl group.

 Heteroaryl refers to a 5 to 14 membered ring system radical comprising hydrogen atoms one to thirteen carbon atoms one to six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this invention the heteroaryl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems and any nitrogen carbon or sulfur atom in the heteroaryl radical may be optionally oxidized and any nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized. For purposes of this invention the aromatic ring of the heteroaryl radical need not contain a heteroatom as long as one ring of the heteroaryl radical contains a heteroatom. Examples include but are not limited to azepinyl acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzthiazolyl benzindolyl benzodioxolyl benzofuranyl benzooxazolyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzo b 1 4 dioxepinyl 1 4 benzodioxanyl benzonaphthofuranyl benzoxazolyl benzodioxolyl benzodioxinyl benzopyranyl benzopyranonyl benzofuranyl benzofuranonyl benzothienyl benzothiophenyl benzotriazolyl benzo 4 6 imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl benzoxazolinonyl carbazolyl cinnolinyl dibenzofuranyl dibenzothiophenyl furanyl furanonyl isothiazolyl imidazolyl indazolyl indolyl indazolyl isoindolyl indolinyl isoindolinyl isoquinolyl indolizinyl isoxazolyl naphthyridinyl oxadiazolyl 2 oxoazepinyl oxazolyl oxiranyl 1 oxidopyridinyl 1 oxidopyrimidinyl 1 oxidopyrazinyl 1 oxidopyridazinyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrrolyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxazinyl phthalazinyl pteridinyl pteridinonyl purinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl pyridinyl pyridinonyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pryrimidinonyl pyridazinyl pyrrolyl pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidinonyl quinazolinyl quinazolinonyl quinoxalinyl quinoxalinonyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 onyl thieno 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 onyl 2 thioxobenzimidazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl triazinyl and thiophenyl i.e. thienyl . Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term heteroaryl is meant to include heteroaryl radicals as defined above which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkoxy halo haloalkyl haloalkenyl cyano oxo thioxo nitro thioxo aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl R OR R OC O R R N R R C O R R C O OR R C O N R R N R C O OR R N R C O R R N R S O R where t is 1 to 2 R N C OR R R S O OR where t is 1 to 2 R S O R where p is 0 to 2 and R S O N R where t is 1 to 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl alkenyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl each Ris independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain and each Ris alkyl alkenyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 N heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl radical as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heteroaryl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heteroaryl radical. An N heteroaryl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for heteroaryl radicals.

 Heteroarylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a heteroaryl radical as defined above. The heteroaryl part of the heteroarylalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heteroaryl group. The alkylene chain part of the heteroarylalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkylene chain.

 Heteroarylalkenyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkenylene chain as defined above and Ris a heteroaryl radical as defined above. The heteroaryl part of the heteroarylalkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heteroaryl group. The alkenylene chain part of the heteroarylalkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkenylene chain.

 Heteroarylalkynyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkynylene chain as defined above and Ris a heteroaryl radical as defined above. The heteroaryl part of the heteroarylalkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heteroaryl group. The alkynylene chain part of the heteroarylalkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkynylene chain.

The invention disclosed herein is also meant to encompass all pharmaceutically acceptable compounds of the invention being isotopically labelled by having one or more atoms replaced by an atom having a different atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into the disclosed compounds include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O P P P S F Cl I and I respectively. These radiolabelled compounds could be useful to help determine or measure the effectiveness of the compounds by characterizing for example the site or mode of action on the selected target or binding affinity to pharmacologically important site of action on the selected target. Certain isotopically labelled compounds of the invention for example those incorporating a radioactive isotope are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution studies. The radioactive isotopes tritium i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C are particularly useful for this purpose in view of their ease of incorporation and ready means of detection.

Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances.

Substitution with positron emitting isotopes such as C F O and N can be useful in Positron Emission Topography PET studies for examining substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the invention can generally be prepared by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Preparations and Examples as set out below using an appropriate isotopically labeled reagent in place of the non labeled reagent previously employed.

The invention disclosed herein is also meant to encompass the in vivo metabolic products of the disclosed compounds. Such products may result from for example the oxidation reducation hydrolysis amidation esterification and the like of the administered compound primarily due to enzymatic processes. Accordingly the invention includes compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof. Such products are typically are identified by administering a radiolabelled compound of the invention in a detectable dose to an animal such as a rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to a human allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur and isolating its coversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples.

 Stable compound and stable structure are meant to indicate a compound that is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture and formulation into an efficacious therapeutic agent.

 Mammal includes humans and also includes domesticated animals such as laboratory animals livestock and household pets e.g. cats dogs swine cattle sheep goats horses rabbits and also includes non domesticated animals such as wildlife and the like.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event of circumstances may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example optionally substituted aryl means that the aryl radical may or may not be substituted and that the description includes both substituted aryl radicals and aryl radicals having no substitution. When a functional group is described as optionally substituted and in turn substitutents on the functional group are also optionally substituted and so on for the purposes of this invention such iterations are limited to five.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable excipient carrier or diluent includes without limitation any adjuvant carrier excipient glidant sweetening agent diluent preservative dye colorant flavor enhancer surfactant wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent stabilizer isotonic agent solvent or emulsifier which has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as being acceptable for use in humans or domestic animals.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable and which are formed with inorganic acids such as but are not limited to hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like and organic acids such as but not limited to acetic acid 2 2 dichloroacetic acid adipic acid alginic acid ascorbic acid aspartic acid benzenesulfonic acid benzoic acid 4 acetamidobenzoic acid camphoric acid camphor 10 sulfonic acid capric acid caproic acid caprylic acid carbonic acid cinnamic acid citric acid cyclamic acid dodecylsulfuric acid ethane 1 2 disulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid formic acid fumaric acid galactaric acid gentisic acid glucoheptonic acid gluconic acid glucuronic acid glutamic acid glutaric acid 2 oxo glutaric acid glycerophosphoric acid glycolic acid hippuric acid isobutyric acid lactic acid lactobionic acid lauric acid maleic acid malic acid malonic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid mucic acid naphthalene 1 5 disulfonic acid naphthalene 2 sulfonic acid 1 hydroxy 2 naphthoic acid nicotinic acid oleic acid orotic acid oxalic acid palmitic acid pamoic acid propionic acid pyroglutamic acid pyruvic acid salicylic acid 4 aminosalicylic acid sebacic acid stearic acid succinic acid tartaric acid thiocyanic acid p toluenesulfonic acid trifluoroacetic acid undecylenic acid and the like.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free acids which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. These salts are prepared from addition of an inorganic base or an organic base to the free acid. Salts derived from inorganic bases include but are not limited to the sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese aluminum salts and the like. Preferred inorganic salts are the ammonium sodium potassium calcium and magnesium salts. Salts derived from organic bases include but are not limited to salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as ammonia isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine triethylamine tripropylamine diethanolamine ethanolamine deanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol 2 diethylaminoethanol dicyclohexylamine lysine arginine histidine caffeine procaine hydrabamine choline betaine benethamine benzathine ethylenediamine glucosamine methylglucamine theobromine triethanolamine tromethamine purines piperazine piperidine N ethylpiperidine polyamine resins and the like. Particularly preferred organic bases are isopropylamine diethylamine ethanolamine trimethylamine dicyclohexylamine choline and caffeine.

Often crystallizations produce a solvate of the compound of the invention. As used herein the term solvate refers to an aggregate that comprises one or more molecules of a compound of the invention with one or more molecules of solvent. The solvent may be water in which case the solvate may be a hydrate. Alternatively the solvent may be an organic solvent. Thus the compounds of the present invention may exist as a hydrate including a monohydrate dihydrate hemihydrate sesquihydrate trihydrate tetrahydrate and the like as well as the corresponding solvated forms. The compound of the invention may be true solvates while in other cases the compound of the invention may merely retain adventitious water or be a mixture of water plus some adventitious solvent.

A pharmaceutical composition refers to a formulation of a compound of the invention and a medium generally accepted in the art for the delivery of the biologically active compound to mammals e.g. humans. Such a medium includes all pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents or excipients therefor.

 Therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of a compound of the invention which when administered to a mammal preferably a human is sufficient to effect treatment as defined below of a disease or condition of interest in the mammal preferably a human. The amount of a compound of the invention which constitutes a therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the compound the condition and its severity the manner of administration and the age of the mammal to be treated but can be determined routinely by one of ordinary skill in the art having regard to his own knowledge and to this disclosure.

 Treating or treatment as used herein covers the treatment of the disease or condition of interest e.g. cancer cancer progression and or metastasis in a mammal preferably a human known to have or suspected of being at risk for having the disease or condition of interest and includes 

 i preventing the disease or condition from occurring in a mammal in particular when such mammal is predisposed to the condition or suspected of being at risk for the condition but has not yet been diagnosed as having it and whereby the disease or condition cannot be detected according to existing accepted criteria for determining whether a specific disease or condition is present 

 ii inhibiting the disease or condition i.e. arresting its development for instance preventing progression of a cancer from an early defined stage to a more advanced defined stage or attenuating progression e.g. decreasing the frequency of such progression events in a statistically significant manner or increasing the timeframe in which such progression occurs in a statistically significant manner or interfering with one or more metastatic events to completely or partially block or attenuate metastasis for instance to substantially impair cancer progression or metastasis which may refer to substantial and statistically significant but not necessarily complete inhibition of progression or metastasis e.g. at least 50 60 70 80 85 90 95 or greater inhibition relative to appropriate untreated controls 

 iv relieving the symptoms resulting from the disease or condition i.e. relieving pain without addressing the underlying disease or condition.

As used herein the terms disease and condition may be used interchangeably or may be different in that the particular malady or condition may not have a known causative agent so that etiology has not yet been worked out and it is therefore not yet recognized as a disease but only as an undesirable condition or syndrome wherein a more or less specific set of symptoms have been identified by clinicians. In preferred embodiments the present invention contemplates methods of treating cancer that is characterized by hepsin overexpression in cancer cells such as prostate cancer ovarian carcinoma endometrial cancer and renal cell carcinoma.

The compounds of the invention or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts may contain one or more asymmetric centres and may thus give rise to enantiomers diastereomers and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S or as D or L for amino acids. The present invention is meant to include all such possible isomers as well as their racemic and optically pure forms. Optically active and R and S or D and L isomers may be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral reagents or resolved using conventional techniques for example chromatography and fractional crystallisation. Conventional techniques for the preparation isolation of individual enantiomers include chiral synthesis from a suitable optically pure precursor or resolution of the racemate or the racemate of a salt or derivative using for example chiral high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC . When the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centres of geometric asymmetry and unless specified otherwise it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z geometric isomers. Likewise all tautomeric forms are also intended to be included.

A stereoisomer refers to a compound made up of the same atoms bonded by the same bonds but having different three dimensional structures which are not interchangeable. The present invention contemplates various stereoisomers and mixtures thereof and includes enantiomers which refers to two stereoisomers whose molecules are nonsuperimposeable mirror images of one another.

A tautomer refers to a proton shift from one atom of a molecule to another atom of the same molecule. The present invention includes tautomers of any said compounds.

The chemical naming protocol and structure diagrams used herein are a modified form of the I.U.P.A.C. nomenclature system. For complex chemical names employed herein a substituent group is named before the group to which it attaches. For example cyclopropylethyl comprises an ethyl backbone with cyclopropyl substituent. In chemical structure diagrams all bonds are identified except for some carbon atoms which are assumed to be bonded to sufficient hydrogen atoms to complete the valency.

Thus by way of a non limiting example a compound of formula II as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention wherein n is 2 each Ris chloro Rand Rare both hydrogen and Ris 4 bromophenyl e.g. a compound of the following formula II 2 

Of the various aspects of the invention set forth above in the Summary of the Invention certain embodiments are preferred.

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula I as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula I as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula I having the following formula I 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula II as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula II as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula II as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula II having the following formula II 1 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula II having the following formula II 2 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula III as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula III as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula III having the following formula III 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula IV as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula IV as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula IV having the following formula IV 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula V as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula V as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula V having the following formula V 1 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula V having the following formula V 2 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula VI as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula VI as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula VI having the following formula VI 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula VII as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula VII as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula VII having the following formula VII 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula VIII as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula VIII as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula VIII having the following formula VIII 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula IX as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula IX as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula IX having the following formula IX 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula X as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl optionally substituted aryl and optionally substituted aralkyl 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula X as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula X having the following formula X 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XI as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XI as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XI having the following formula XI 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XII as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XII as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XII having the following formula XII 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XIII as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XIII as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XIII having the following formula XIII 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XIV as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XIV as set forth above wherein 

In another embodiment of the invention the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound of formula XIV having the following formula XIV 1 

In another embodiment the hepsin inhibitor utilized in the methods of the invention comprises a compound selected from the group consisting of 

Of the various embodiments of the compounds of formulae I XIV as set forth above it is understood that various embodiments of these formulae are not specifically described herein and that such embodiments are considered to be within the scope of the invention.

As also noted above certain presently disclosed embodiments are directed to a method for preventing or attenuating cancer progression or blocking metastasis in a subject known to have or suspected of being at risk for having a cancer characterized by hepsin overexpression such as prostate cancer ovarian carcinoma endometrial cancer or renal cell carcinoma. Certain illustrative examples are described herein with reference to prostate cancer as a preferred embodiment but the invention is not intended to be so limited and may also find uses in the treatment of other cancers that are characterized by hepsin overexpression.

The presence of cancer or of a malignant condition in a subject refers to the presence of dysplastic cancerous and or transformed cells in the subject including for example neoplastic tumor non contact inhibited or oncogenically transformed cells or the like e.g. prostate cancer or endometrial cancer or ovarian cancer or carcinomas such as adenocarcinoma renal cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma small cell carcinoma oat cell carcinoma etc. sarcomas such as chondrosarcoma osteosarcoma etc. melanoma which are known to the art and for which criteria for diagnosis and classification are established as are signs and symptoms and or risk factors according to which an individual may be identified as having or as suspected of being at risk for having or progressing to a particular type of cancer or malignant condition. e.g. Roulston J. E. and Bartlett J. M. S. Eds. Molecular Diagnosis of Cancer Methods and Protocols 2Ed. 2004 Humana Press Totowa N.J. Hayat M. A. Ed. Cancer Imaging 2007 Academic Press NY Skarin Atlas of Diagnostic Oncology 2002 Mosby Elsevier Philadelphia Pa. Nakamura R. M. et al. Cancer Diagnostics 2004 Humana Press Totowa N.J. etc. These and related criteria are thus known and may further include determination of cancer progression and of metastasis or metastatic disease i.e. the spread of one or a plurality of cancer cells from an initial or primary tumor site in a tissue or organ to one or more distinct secondary sites where tumor cells lodge and proliferate to form secondary tumors having deleterious clinical consequences for the subject.

In preferred embodiments contemplated by the present invention for example such cancer cells are neoplastically transformed epithelial cells such as carcinoma cells. Certain particularly preferred embodiments contemplate application of the compositions and methods described herein for the treatment of a cancer that is characterized by cancer cells in which hepsin overexpression is present.

Prostate cancers may be classified according to recognized stages in the progression of disease e.g. as prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia PIN prostate confined non invasive low grade cancer prostate confined invasive cancer metastatic prostate cancer etc. as described in e.g. Vasioukhin 2004 3 1394. Prostate cancers may also be graded according to the Tumor Node Metastasis TNM staging system e.g. Chang et al. 2008 58 54 59 .

As is presently practiced in the art early stages of prostate cancer such as prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia PIN and or prostate confined non invasive low grade cancer represent early steps in the progression of disease wherein current clinical practices include so called watchful waiting as a management strategy. In watchful waiting periodic assessment of disease progression is made but no major invasive procedures e.g. surgery are undertaken so long as the cancer remains confined to the prostatic epithelium without disrupting the underlying basement membrane.

Because many of the sequelae of surgical intervention to remove prostate tissue containing invasive and or metastatic prostate cancer cells include undesirable but frequently unavoidable side effects that negatively impact the patient s quality of life e.g. chronic pain discomfort incontinence loss of sexual function it may be desirable according to certain herein disclosed embodiments to prevent or attenuate cancer progression or to block metastasis by treatments that prevent progression of prostate cancer to invasive and or metastatic stages i.e. to maintain the watchful waiting status. Accordingly and without wishing to be bound by theory certain herein disclosed embodiments relate to maintenance of cancer in a subject at such a pre invasive pre metastatic stage by administering one or more of the herein disclosed hepsin inhibitor compounds in a manner that interferes with cancer progression and thereby precludes the need for surgery.

Hepsin overexpression in prostate cancer cells and implication of hepsin in cancer progression and metstasis including a possible role in the disruption of basement membranes underlying prostatic epithelia leading to tumor invasion of the basement membrane and progressing to metastatic disease have been reported Klezovitch et al. 2004 6 185 Srikantan et al. 2002 62 6812 . The inability of hepsin overexpressing metastatic prostate cancer cell lines to invade laminin matrigels in vitro however Srinkantan et al. 2002 suggests unappreciated complexity of hepsin s role in metastatic mechanisms. Moreover prior to the present application no specific hepsin inhibitor compounds such as the ones described herein had been identified for use according to certain present embodiments.

Similar staging paradigms are established for ovarian cancer progression for instance that of the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics FIGO according to which generally epithelial ovarian cancer stages I occurrence of cancer cells limited to intraovarian sites II intraovarian plus pelvic cancer cells III occurrence of cancer cells limited to intraovarian pelvic and abdominal or proximate regional sites and IV as III plus involvement of other distal organs as cancer sites and recurrent ovarian cancer have been classified TNM Classification of Malignant Tumours Sixth Edition UICC 2002 . Endometrial cancer progression has also been classified by stages in like fashion see e.g. NIH NCI PDQ cancer information database National Cancer Institute Frederick Md. stage I confined to occurrence of cancer cells within uterus only II cancer detected in uterus and cervix Ill cancer cells beyond uterus and cervix but restricted to pelvic region and IV cancer detected beyond pelvis including bladder bowerl abdominal or groin lymph nodes or beyond .

Renal cell carcinoma progression has also been defined according to the TNM staging system American Joint Committee on Cancer AJCC TNM Classification of Malignant Tumours Sixth Edition UICC 2002 . Hence stage I renal cell carcinoma involves intrarenal tumors of no more than seven centimeters in diameter stage II involves intrarenal tumors in excess of seven centimeters stage III involves confinement of tumors to renal Gerota s fascia and up to one lymph node in the vicinity of the affected kidney and in stage IV renal carcinoma cancer cells have invaded tissues beyond the renal fascia as evidenced by cancer in more than one lymph node in the vicinity of the affected kidney or in at least one distal site.

As described herein there are identified for the first time as specific hepsin inhibitors 16 small molecule compounds that can be structurally assigned to one of 14 generic structures. Based on the identification herein of these specific inhibitors and of the corresponding generic structures for which some or all of these inhibitors may have value as lead compounds it is contemplated that certain embodiments of the present invention will be of major value in high throughput screening i.e. in automated testing or screening of a large number of additional candidate hepsin inhibitors for example in screening synthetic or natural product libraries for additional structurally related active compounds.

Typically and in certain preferred embodiments such as for high throughput drug screening candidate agents e.g. candidate hepsin inhibitors belonging to a hepsin inhibitor structural genus as herein disclosed are provided as libraries or collections of compounds compositions or molecules. Such molecules typically include compounds known in the art as small molecules and having molecular weights less than 10daltons preferably less than 10daltons and still more preferably less than 10daltons.

Candidate agents further may be provided as members of a combinatorial library which preferably includes synthetic agents prepared according to a plurality of predetermined chemical reactions performed in a plurality of reaction vessels. For example various starting compounds may be prepared employing one or more of solid phase synthesis recorded random mix methodologies and recorded reaction split techniques that permit a given constituent to traceably undergo a plurality of permutations and or combinations of reaction conditions. The resulting products comprise a library of structurally related compounds that can be screened followed by iterative selection and synthesis procedures such as a synthetic combinatorial library that may include small molecules as provided herein see e.g. PCT US94 08542 EP 0774464 U.S. Pat. No. 5 798 035 U.S. Pat. No. 5 789 172 U.S. Pat. No. 5 751 629 .

Accordingly in these and related embodiments there is provided a method of inhibiting hepsin proteolytic activity comprising contacting a hepsin polypeptide and a hepsin inhibitor e.g. a compound having a structure that is within one of the structures of formulae I XIV as provided herein under conditions and for a time sufficient for the hepsin inhibitor to interact specifically with the hepsin polypeptide. As described herein in the illustrative examples such contacting may typically involve a method whereby the hepsin polypeptide and the hepsin inhibitor are afforded an opportunity physically to contact one another e.g by exposing introducing admixing incubating or otherwise bringing into close and unhindered proximity and these and related embodiments further contemplate determining inhibition of the proteolytic activity of the hepsin polypeptide for example by detecting a level of enzymatic cleavage by the hepsin polypeptide of a detectable serine protease substrate e.g. a chromogenic substrate in the absence of the hepsin inhibitor that differs with statistical significance from the level of enzymatic cleavage by the hepsin polypeptide of the detectable serine protease substrate e.g. a chromogenic substrate in the presence of the hepsin inhibitor.

Operable conditions including solution conditions temperature and incubation times for determining serine protease activity such as the ability of a hepsin polypeptide to cleave a serine protease substrate as provided herein e.g. pyroGlu Pro Arg pNA are known to persons familiar with the art e.g. Somoza et al. 2003 11 1123 and or can be readily identified using only routine experimentation based on existing knowledge in enzymology generally and specifically with regard to serine proteases. These and related embodiments may afford identification from amongst the presently disclosed hepsin inhibitors of those having particularly desirable properties depending on intended uses such as e.g. formulations for particular routes of administration or having one or more hepsin inhibitors of particular efficacies potencies and or physicochemical or pharmacokinetic properties. As also described herein the compounds identified herein as hepsin inhibitors exhibit significant selectivity toward hepsin as contrasted with inhibitory activity against other serine proteases such as trypsin and thrombin e.g. Table 1 such that any specific one of the present hepsin inhibitors should have an ICvalue when tested against hepsin that is lower i.e. in a statistically significant manner than the ICvalue when tested against trypsin or thrombin. Preferred are hepsin inhibitors that exhibit at least 10 fold 20 fold 30 fold 40 fold 50 fold 60 fold 70 fold 75 fold 80 fold or greater selectivity for hepsin relative to either or both of trypsin and thrombin.

The mammalian cell surface type II transmembrane serine protease hepsin is a well known polypeptide. The human hepsin polypeptide for example e.g. Genbank Acc. Nos. NP892028 NP002142 BC025716 SEQ ID NOS 1 3 comprises an extracellular region e.g. from amino acid positions serine 46 to leucine 417 in Genbank BC025716 and set forth in SEQ ID NO 4 that includes the scavenger receptor cysteine rich SRCR domain and hepsin catalytic domain e.g. amino acid positions 163 to 400 SEQ ID NO 5 having serine protease activity Somoza et al. 2003 11 1123 . As further examples at least two highly similar murine hepsin polypeptide sequences have been identified Genbank Acc. Nos. AAI38810 SEQ ID NO 6 and AAB84221 SEQ ID NO 9 . The amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 9 for instance is about 88 identical to the human hepsin sequence SEQ ID NO 1 2 or 3 and has a hepsin catalytic domain amino acids 162 400 SEQ ID NO 11 that is about 91 identical to the corresponding human hepsin catalytic domain SEQ ID NO 5 . The extracellular region of SEQ ID NO 9 comprises amino acids serine 45 to proline 416 and has the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 10. Similarly the corresponding extracellular region of SEQ ID NO 6 comprises amino acids serine 65 to proline 435 and has the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 7 and the hepsin catalytic domain amino acids 182 419 of SEQ ID NO 6 has the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 8.

Criteria for determining hepsin protease activity are well established and include specific cleavage by the enzyme of any of a number of serine protease substrate peptides having defined sequences but not of peptides having irrelevant sequences. A suitable substrate for hepsin protease activity may therefore be for instance the chromogenic serine protease substrate L pyroglutamyl L prolyl L arginine p nitroaniline pyroGlu Pro Arg pNA available as L pyroglutamyl L prolyl L arginine p nitroaniline hydrochloride Diapharma Inc. West Chester Ohio Cat. No. S 2366 .

A hepsin polypeptide for use in certain embodiments contemplated herein may therefore comprise the amino acid sequence set forth in any one of Genbank Acc. Nos. NP892028 NP002142 and BC025716 SEQ ID NOS 1 3 AAB4221 and AAI38810 SEQ ID NOS 9 and 6 respectively and and may in certain other embodiments comprise a hepsin polypeptide variant comprising a polypeptide that is at least 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 identical to such polypeptides and that is capable of specific enzymatic cleavage of a serine protease substrate such as the chromogenic serine protease substrate L pyroglutamyl L prolyl L arginine p nitroaniline pyrGlu Pro Arg pNA . In certain other embodiments a hepsin polypeptide may comprise a polypeptide that comprises a hepsin catalytic domain or a functional fragment thereof or variant thereof the hepsin catalytic domain or functional fragment thereof or variant thereof comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80 85 90 or 95 identical to the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 5 amino acids 163 400 of BC025716 SEQ ID NO 3 SEQ ID NO 8 amino acids 182 419 of AAI38810 SEQ ID NO 6 or SEQ ID NO 11 amino acids 162 400 of AAB4221 SEQ ID NO 9 and that is capable of specific enzymatic cleavage of a chromogenic serine protease substrate that comprises pyroGlu Pro Arg pNA.

Polypeptide variants of a hepsin polypeptide or of a hepsin catalytic domain or a functional fragment thereof may contain one or more amino acid substitutions additions deletions and or insertions relative to a native hepsin polypeptide sequence such as the amino acid sequence set forth in any one of Genbank Acc. Nos. NP892028 NP002142 and BC025716 SEQ ID NOS 1 3 AAB4221 and AAI38810 SEQ ID NOS 9 and 6 e.g. wildtype or a predominant or naturally occurring allelic form . Variants preferably exhibit at least about 75 78 80 85 87 88 or 89 identity and more preferably at least about 90 92 95 96 97 98 or 99 identity to a portion of a native hepsin polypeptide sequence. The percent identity may be readily determined by comparing sequences of the polypeptide variants with the corresponding portion of a full length polypeptide. Some techniques for sequence comparison include using computer algorithms well known to those having ordinary skill in the art such as Align or the BLAST algorithm Altschul 219 555 565 1991 Henikoff and Henikoff 89 10915 10919 1992 which is available at the NCBI website see online Internet 

Furthermore computer algorithms are available in the art that enable the skilled artisan to predict the three dimensional structure of a protein or peptide in order to ascertain functional variants of a particular polypeptide. For instance variants can be identified wherein all or a portion of the three dimensional structure is not substantially altered by one or more modification substitution addition deletion and or insertion. See for example Bradley et al. 309 1868 1871 2005 Schueler Furman et al. 310 638 2005 Dietz et al. 103 1244 2006 Dodson et al. 450 176 2007 Qian et al. 450 259 2007 . In this way one of skill in the art can readily determine whether a particular hepsin polypeptide variant or a hepsin catalytic domain or a functional fragment thereof is capable of specific enzymatic cleavage of a serine protease substrate such as pyroGlu Pro Arg pNA.

Methodologies for the design production and testing of hepsin polypeptides and polypeptide variants and of hepsin catalytic domains and functional fragments thereof as provided herein are all available by minor modification to existing knowledge in the art for example using conventional methods of virology immunology microbiology molecular biology and recombinant DNA techniques which are explained fully in the literature. See e.g. Sambrook et al. 2nd Edition 1989 Maniatis et al. 1982 vol. I II D. Glover ed. N. Gait ed. 1984 B. Hames S. Higgins eds. 1985 B. Hames S. Higgins eds. 1984 R. Freshney ed. 1986 Perbal 1984 .

According to these and related methodologies and based on the disclosure herein there are also contemplated certain embodiments wherein the hepsin polypeptide as described herein may comprise a cell surface hepsin polypeptide. Those skilled in the art will be familiar with criteria for determining whether a particular polypeptide such as a hepsin polypeptide is present on a cell surface including detection via radiological imaging or fluorescence magnetic resonance imaging or immunofluorescence or immunohistologic imaging or other immunologic detection or by biochemical including enzymological or histochemical or other cell surface localization detection means. The cell surface hepsin polypeptide may be present on a cell surface naturally or as a result of genetic engineering or in response to another artificial stimulus.

The cell surface hepsin polypeptide may be present on a cell in vivo according to certain embodiments and according to certain other embodiments the cell surface hepsin polypeptide may be present on a cell ex vivo or in vitro. In certain preferred embodiments the cell surface hepsin polypeptide is present on the surface of a cell that is selected from a prostate cancer cell an ovarian carcinoma cell an endometrial cancer cell and a renal carcinoma cell. In certain related preferred embodiments the cell surface hepsin polypeptide is present on the surface of a prostate cancer cell of a subject having prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia or prostate confined non invasive low grade cancer. As described herein such a subject may be a member of the watchful waiting cohort for which these and related embodiments may be particularly useful. In certain of these and other embodiments described herein as may relate to a method for inhibiting hepsin proteolytic activity on a cell surface it will be appreciated that therapeutic and or diagnostic benefits to the subject may be obtained. For example by way of illustration and not limitation it is contemplated that by the practice of these and related embodiments cancer progression may be prevented or attenuated or metastasis blocked as described herein.

There is thus provided a method of inhibiting hepsin proteolytic activity on a cell surface comprising contacting a cell that comprises a cell surface hepsin polypeptide and a hepsin inhibitor e.g. a compound having a structure that is within one of the structures of formulae I XIV as provided herein under conditions and for a time sufficient for the hepsin inhibitor to interact specifically with the hepsin polypeptide and thereby inhibiting hepsin proteolytic activity on the cell surface. As described herein in the illustrative examples such contacting may typically involve a method whereby the hepsin polypeptide and the hepsin inhibitor are afforded an opportunity physically to contact one another e.g by exposing introducing admixing incubating or otherwise bringing into close and unhindered proximity and these and related embodiments also contemplate administration of the inhibitor to the cell in vivo according to any administrative route such as those described herein.

The present invention also relates in certain embodiments to pharmaceutical compositions containing the compounds of the invention disclosed herein. In one embodiment the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising compounds of the invention in a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient carrier or diluent and in an amount effective to prevent or attenuate cancer progression or block metastasis when administered to an animal preferably a mammal most preferably a human.

Administration of the compounds of the invention or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts in pure form or in an appropriate pharmaceutical composition can be carried out via any of the accepted modes of administration of agents for serving similar utilities. The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be prepared by combining a compound of the invention with an appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient and may be formulated into preparations in solid semi solid liquid or gaseous forms such as tablets capsules powders granules ointments solutions suppositories injections inhalants gels microspheres and aerosols. Typical routes of administering such pharmaceutical compositions include without limitation oral topical transdermal inhalation parenteral sublingual rectal vaginal intranasal intraperitoneal intravenous intraarterial transdermal sublingual subcutaneous intramuscular rectal transbuccal intranasal liposomal via inhalation intraoccular via local delivery subcutaneous intraadiposal intraarticularly or intrathecally. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are formulated so as to allow the active ingredients contained therein to be bioavailable upon administration of the composition to a patient. Compositions that will be administered to a subject or patient take the form of one or more dosage units where for example a tablet may be a single dosage unit and a container of a compound of the invention in aerosol form may hold a plurality of dosage units. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art for example see 20th Edition Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science 2000 . The composition to be administered will in any event contain a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for treatment of a disease or condition of interest in accordance with the teachings of this invention.

The pharmaceutical compositions useful herein also contain a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier including any suitable diluent or excipient which includes any pharmaceutical agent that does not itself induce the production of antibodies harmful to the individual receiving the composition and which may be administered without undue toxicity. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include but are not limited to liquids such as water saline glycerol and ethanol and the like. A thorough discussion of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents and other excipients is presented in REMINGTON S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES Mack Pub. Co. N.J. current edition .

A pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be in the form of a solid or liquid. In one aspect the carrier s are particulate so that the compositions are for example in tablet or powder form. The carrier s may be liquid with the compositions being for example an oral syrup injectable liquid or an aerosol which is useful in for example inhalatory administration.

When intended for oral administration the pharmaceutical composition is preferably in either solid or liquid form where semi solid semi liquid suspension and gel forms are included within the forms considered herein as either solid or liquid.

As a solid composition for oral administration the pharmaceutical composition may be formulated into a powder granule compressed tablet pill capsule chewing gum wafer or the like form. Such a solid composition will typically contain one or more inert diluents or edible carriers. In addition one or more of the following may be present binders such as carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin excipients such as starch lactose or dextrins disintegrating agents such as alginic acid sodium alginate Primogel corn starch and the like lubricants such as magnesium stearate or Sterotex glidants such as colloidal silicon dioxide sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring and a coloring agent.

When the pharmaceutical composition is in the form of a capsule for example a gelatin capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as polyethylene glycol or oil.

The pharmaceutical composition may be in the form of a liquid for example an elixir syrup solution emulsion or suspension. The liquid may be for oral administration or for delivery by injection as two examples. When intended for oral administration preferred composition contain in addition to the present compounds one or more of a sweetening agent preservatives dye colorant and flavor enhancer. In a composition intended to be administered by injection one or more of a surfactant preservative wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent buffer stabilizer and isotonic agent may be included.

The liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the invention whether they be solutions suspensions or other like form may include one or more of the following adjuvants sterile diluents such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils such as synthetic mono or diglycerides which may serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. Physiological saline is a preferred adjuvant. An injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.

A liquid pharmaceutical composition of the invention intended for either parenteral or oral administration should contain an amount of a compound of the invention such that a suitable dosage will be obtained. Typically this amount is at least 0.01 of a compound of the invention in the composition. When intended for oral administration this amount may be varied to be between 0.1 and about 70 of the weight of the composition. Preferred oral pharmaceutical compositions contain between about 4 and about 50 of the compound of the invention. Preferred pharmaceutical compositions and preparations according to the present invention are prepared so that a parenteral dosage unit contains between 0.01 to 10 by weight of the compound prior to dilution of the invention.

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be intended for topical administration in which case the carrier may suitably comprise a solution emulsion ointment or gel base. The base for example may comprise one or more of the following petrolatum lanolin polyethylene glycols bee wax mineral oil diluents such as water and alcohol and emulsifiers and stabilizers. Thickening agents may be present in a pharmaceutical composition for topical administration. If intended for transdermal administration the composition may include a transdermal patch or iontophoresis device. Topical formulations may contain a concentration of the compound of the invention from about 0.1 to about 10 w v weight per unit volume .

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be intended for rectal administration in the form for example of a suppository which will melt in the rectum and release the drug. The composition for rectal administration may contain an oleaginous base as a suitable nonirritating excipient. Such bases include without limitation lanolin cocoa butter and polyethylene glycol.

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may include various materials which modify the physical form of a solid or liquid dosage unit. For example the composition may include materials that form a coating shell around the active ingredients. The materials that form the coating shell are typically inert and may be selected from for example sugar shellac and other enteric coating agents. Alternatively the active ingredients may be encased in a gelatin capsule.

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention in solid or liquid form may include an agent that binds to the compound of the invention and thereby assists in the delivery of the compound. Suitable agents that may act in this capacity include a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody a protein or a liposome.

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may consist of dosage units that can be administered as an aerosol. The term aerosol is used to denote a variety of systems ranging from those of colloidal nature to systems consisting of pressurized packages. Delivery may be by a liquefied or compressed gas or by a suitable pump system that dispenses the active ingredients. Aerosols of compounds of the invention may be delivered in single phase bi phasic or tri phasic systems in order to deliver the active ingredient s . Delivery of the aerosol includes the necessary container activators valves subcontainers and the like which together may form a kit. One skilled in the art without undue experimentation may determine preferred aerosols.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by methodology well known in the pharmaceutical art. For example a pharmaceutical composition intended to be administered by injection can be prepared by combining a compound of the invention with sterile distilled water so as to form a solution. A surfactant may be added to facilitate the formation of a homogeneous solution or suspension. Surfactants are compounds that non covalently interact with the compound of the invention so as to facilitate dissolution or homogeneous suspension of the compound in the aqueous delivery system.

The compounds of the invention or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts are administered in a therapeutically effective amount which will vary depending upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed the metabolic stability and length of action of the compound the age body weight general health sex and diet of the patient the mode and time of administration the rate of excretion the drug combination the severity of the particular disorder or condition and the subject undergoing therapy. Generally a therapeutically effective daily dose is for a 70 Kg mammal from about 0.001 mg Kg i.e. 0.07 mg to about 100 mg Kg i.e. 7.0 g preferably a therapeutically effective dose is for a 70 Kg mammal from about 0.01 mg Kg i.e. 0.7 mg to about 50 mg Kg i.e. 3.5 g more preferably a therapeutically effective dose is for a 70 Kg mammal from about 1 mg kg i.e. 70 mg to about 25 mg Kg i.e. 1.75 g .

The ranges of effective doses provided herein are not intended to be limiting and represent preferred dose ranges. However the most preferred dosage will be tailored to the individual subject as is understood and determinable by one skilled in the relevant arts. see e.g. Berkowet al. eds. The Merck Manual 16edition Merck and Co. Rahway N.J. 1992 Goodman et al. eds. Goodman and Gilman s The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 10edition Pergamon Press Inc. Elmsford N.Y. 2001 Avery s Drug Treatment Principles and Practice of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics 3rd edition ADIS Press LTD. Williams and Wilkins Baltimore Md. 1987 Ebadi Pharmacology Little Brown and Co. Boston 1985 Osolci al. eds. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18edition Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1990 Katzung Basic and Clinical Pharmacology Appleton and Lange Norwalk Conn. 1992 .

The total dose required for each treatment can be administered by multiple doses or in a single dose over the course of the day if desired. Generally treatment is initiated with smaller dosages which are less than the optimum dose of the compound. Thereafter the dosage is increased by small increments until the optimum effect under the circumstances is reached. The diagnostic pharmaceutical compound or composition can be administered alone or in conjunction with other diagnostics and or pharmaceuticals directed to the pathology or directed to other symptoms of the pathology. The recipients of administration of compounds and or compositions of the invention can be any vertebrate animal such as mammals. Among mammals the preferred recipients are mammals of the Orders Primate including humans apes and monkeys Arteriodactyla including horses goats cows sheep pigs Rodenta including mice rats rabbits and hamsters and Carnivora including cats and dogs . Among birds the preferred recipients are turkeys chickens and other members of the same order. The most preferred recipients are humans.

For topical applications it is preferred to administer an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition according to the invention to target area e.g. skin surfaces mucous membranes and the like which are adjacent to peripheral neurons which are to be treated. This amount will generally range from about 0.0001 mg to about 1 g of a compound of the invention per application depending upon the area to be treated whether the use is diagnostic prophylactic or therapeutic the severity of the symptoms and the nature of the topical vehicle employed. A preferred topical preparation is an ointment wherein about 0.001 to about 50 mg of active ingredient is used per cc of ointment base. The pharmaceutical composition can be formulated as transdermal compositions or transdermal delivery devices patches . Such compositions include for example a backing active compound reservoir a control membrane liner and contact adhesive. Such transdermal patches may be used to provide continuous pulsatile or on demand delivery of the compounds of the present invention as desired.

The compositions of the invention can be formulated so as to provide quick sustained or delayed release of the active ingredient after administration to the patient by employing procedures known in the art. Controlled release drug delivery systems include osmotic pump systems and dissolutional systems containing polymer coated reservoirs or drug polymer matrix formulations. Examples of controlled release systems are given in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 845 770 and 4 326 525 and in P. J. Kuzma et al. 22 6 543 551 1997 all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The compositions of the invention can also be delivered through intra nasal drug delivery systems for local systemic and nose to brain medical therapies. Controlled Particle Dispersion CPD technology traditional nasal spray bottles inhalers or nebulizers are known by those skilled in the art to provide effective local and systemic delivery of drugs by targeting the olfactory region and paranasal sinuses.

The invention also relates to an intravaginal shell or core drug delivery device suitable for administration to the human or animal female. The device may be comprised of the active pharmaceutical ingredient in a polymer matrix surrounded by a sheath and capable of releasing the compound in a substantially zero order pattern on a daily basis similar to devises used to apply testosterone as desscribed in PCT Published Patent No. WO 98 50016.

Current methods for ocular delivery include topical administration eye drops subconjunctival injections periocular injections intravitreal injections surgical implants and iontophoresis uses a small electrical current to transport ionized drugs into and through body tissues . Those skilled in the art would combine the best suited excipients with the compound for safe and effective intra occular administration.

The most suitable route will depend on the nature and severity of the condition being treated. Those skilled in the art are also familiar with determining administration methods e.g. oral intravenous inhalation sub cutaneous rectal etc. dosage forms suitable pharmaceutical excipients and other matters relevant to the delivery of the compounds to a subject in need thereof.

Unless the context requires otherwise throughout the specification and claims which follow the word comprise and variations thereof such as comprises and comprising are to be construed in an open inclusive sense that is as including but not limited to .

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment or an aspect means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

The compounds used in the methods of the invention can be prepared according to methods known to one skilled in the art or are commercially available for example from ChemBridge Corporation San Diego Calif. or MicroSource Discovery Systems Gaylordsville Conn. . All the compounds used in the methods of the invention which exist in free base or acid form may be converted to their pharmaceutically acceptable salt by treatment with the appropriate inorganic or organic base or acid by methods known to one skilled in the art. Salts of the compounds may be converted to their free base or acid by standard techniques known to one skilled in the art.

The following Examples which include assays that can be utilized to determine the efficacy of the compounds in the methods of the invention are provided as a guide to assist in the practice of the invention and are not intended as a limitation on the scope of the invention.

A. Reagents. The DIVERSet and NINDS II compound libraries and reordered hit compounds from those libraries were purchased from Chembridge Corporation San Diego Calif. and MicroSource Discovery Systems Inc. Gaylordsville Conn. respectively. The chromogenic peptide pyroGlu Pro Arg pNA S 2366 was purchased through Diapharma Group Inc. West Chester Ohio . Rabbit anti human hepsin polyclonal antibody was purchased from Cayman Chemical Ann Arbor Mich. 100022 and goat anti rabbit Ig secondary antibody was purchased from Jackson ImmunoResearch West Grove Pa. . Molecular biology grade DMSO was purchased from Fluka Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . Trypsin was purchased from ICN MP Biomedicals Solon Ohio 103140 . Thrombin was purchased from Sigma St. Louis Mo. T 3399 .

B. Recombinant Hepsin Expression and Purification. Recombinant expression and chromatographic purification of human hepsin was performed as described previously Somoza et al. 2003 11 1123 .

C. Compound Library Screening. The DIVERSet 10 000 compound and NINDS II 1040 compound libraries were diluted from 20 and 10 M stock plates in DMSO respectively to 20 M 10 solutions in 10 DMSO. Purified hepsin was incubated with 2 M compounds in 30 mM Tris HCl 30 mM imidazole 200 mM NaCl and 1 DMSO for 30 minutes at room temperature. Chromogenic peptide was added and the reactions allowed to proceed for 3 hours. Endpoint absorbance was measured using a VersaMax microplate reader Molecular Devices Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. corrected for background and residual activity observed relative to solvent controls on each plate.

D. Hepsin Trypsin and Thrombin Activity Assays. Titration of the chromogenic substrate pryoGlu Pro Arg pNA was performed for each enzyme and the resulting substrate velocity data fit with nonlinear regression using GraphPad Prism 4 software GraphPad La Jolla Calif. to calculate Vmax and Km. Enzyme assay concentration and observed Km 0.4 nM hepsin Km 170 M 0.4 nM trypsin Km 78.6 M thrombin 188mU mL Km 106.2 M. Inhibitor activity was determined by incubating the individual enzymes with increasing concentrations of compounds in the library screen buffer for 30 minutes at room temperature followed by addition of the substrate at the observed Km. The reactions were then followed using a kinetic microplate reader and the linear rates of increase in absorbance at 405 nm expressed as percent activity 100 vi vo . At least three independent experiments were performed for each enzyme. The ICwas calculated by fitting the data to a four parameter non linear regression using GraphPad Prism 4.

E. Cell Culture. LNCaP HepG2 and HEK 293FT cells were purchased from ATCC Manassas Va. . The spontaneously transformed mouse prostate epithelial cell line MP 1 was established by passaging C57 B6 primary mouse prostate epithelial cells. Cell culture components and suppliers were as follows DMEM F12 and RPMI base medias Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. hydrocortisone Calbiochem EMD San Diego Calif. insulin T3 and cholera toxin Sigma St. Louis Mo. . Cells were incubated in a humidified 37 C. 5 CO2 incubator and passaged at 80 confluence with trypsin EDTA. Mouse prostate epithelial cells MP 1 were maintained in E media containing 3 1 DMEM F12 37 mM sodium bicarbonate 0.42 g mL hydrocortisone 0.89 ng mL cholera toxin 5.3 g mL insulin 5.3 g mL transferrin 2.1 10 11M T3 16 pen strep and L glutamine with 15 FCS. LNCaP cells were maintained in RPMI supplemented with 10 FCS and pen strep. HepG2 cells were maintained in DMEM supplemented with 10 FCS and pen strep. 293FT cells were maintained in DMEM supplemented with 10 FCS L glutamine non essential amino acids and pen strep.

F. Cell Cytotoxicity Assay. The general cytotoxicity of the compounds was determined using the CellTiter Glo Assay from Promega Madison Wis. . Mouse prostate epithelial LNCaP and HepG2 cells were seeded in 96 well black culture plates at 2 104 cells per well and allowed to attach. Media was aspirated and compounds were administered at 20 M in the appropriate media and media with compounds was changed at 24 and 48 hours. CellTiter Glo reagent was added to the cells and ATP coupled luciferase activity recorded on a microplate luminometer.

G. Pericellular Serine Proteolytic Activity Assay. Plasmids containing cDNA encoding full length wild type murine hepsin Genbank Acc. No. AAB84221 SEQ ID NO 9 Vu et al. 1997 272 31315 Wu et al. 1998 101 321 Kawamura et al. 1999 262 755 or an active site serine to alanine mutation at amino acid position 352 of SEQ ID NO 9 catalytically inactive S352A mutant hepsin SEQ ID NO 12 or the empty pLNCX2 vector were transfected into HEK 293FT cells using a calcium phosphate protocol. After 3.5 hrs transfection media was replaced with fresh media containing 20 M or 50 M of test compounds or solvent control 0.5 DMSO in media and cells incubated overnight. Attached cell monolayers were then washed twice with PBS and once with assay buffer 5 CO2 equilibrated phenol red free DMEM with 1 BSA to remove residual serum proteases inhibitors. Cells were then incubated in assay buffer containing 20 or 50 M compounds for 30 minutes at 37 C. Peptide substrate was then added to a final concentration of 369 M observed Km in this system and the reactions allowed to proceed at 37 C. Samples were withdrawn at 20 40 and 60 minutes quenched into an equal volume of 7 acetic acid and absorbance at 405 nm measured with a microplate reader. Percent inhibition was calculated as residual activity relative to solvent control. Matched samples were used in parallel to determine toxicity of the test compounds to HEK 293FT cells in this system using the CellTiter Glo assay.

H. Immunoblotting. Total protein lysates from transfected compound treated HEK 293FT cells were separated on SDS PAGE and transferred to Immobilon P membrane Millipore Billerica Mass. . The membrane was blocked overnight in TBST buffer containing 5 non fat milk 2 normal goat serum in 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 100 mM NaCl 0.1 Tween 20. The membrane was then incubated in 3 BSA in TBST with polyclonal anti hepsin antibody 1 1000 for two hours at room temperature washed 3 5 minutes with TBST and incubated for one hour in 0.1 BSA in TBST containing goat anti rabbit HRP secondary antibody 1 2000 washed 3 5 minutes in TBST and developed with ECL Pierce Chemicals Rockford Ill. . Protein loading was confirmed by stripping the membrane and reprobing with anti actin antibodies. Expression levels were quantified by densitometry using ImageQuantTL GE Healthcare Life Sciences Piscataway N.J. .

A. Expression and Purification of the Recombinant Extracellular Region of Hepsin. In the human hepsin polypeptide e.g. Genbank Acc. No. BC025716 SEQ ID NO 3 the extracellular region has been identified as residues Ser46 to Leu417 SEQ ID NO 4 and contains the catalytic and scavenger receptor cysteine rich SRCR domain. The yeast was stably transfected with the hepsin expression construct and the secreted 41 kD hepsin zymogen was purified from the media using several steps of affinity and ion exchange chromatography. During purification to homogeneity the enzyme spontaneously activated as previously reported Somoza et al. 2003 11 1123 . Protein identity was confirmed by silver staining of SDS PAGE separated samples and immunoblotting with anti hepsin catalytic domain polyclonal antibodies . The purified hepsin was enzymatically active cleaving the chromogenic serine protease substrate pyroGlu Pro Arg pNA.

B. High Throughput Screening and Characterization of Hit Compounds. To identify novel inhibitors of hepsin the Chembridge DIVERSet 10 000 compound high diversity library was screened using an assay based on the cleavage of the chromogenic peptide. In addition the NINDS II library of 1040 compounds MicroSource Discovery was screened to identify hepsin inhibitors among established drugs and known bioactive molecules. Screens were performed in a 96 well format at a final compound concentration of 2 M. To minimize false positives positions 1 and 12 of each row contained DMSO buffer controls. As a measure of reproducibility the Z score for this assay was 0.78 Zhang et al. 1999 4 67 . Compounds that showed 90 inhibition were individually reproduced. Reproduced hits were reordered from the supplier and their inhibitory activity was confirmed . The ICvalues for these compounds were determined by titration of the compounds against kinetic hepsin activity . Relative specificity was determined by titration against the serine proteases trypsin and thrombin Table 1 .

Table 1 shows potency and specificity of identified hepsin inhibitors. Purified recombinant hepsin was preincubated with indicated compounds for 30 minutes at room temperature. The fractional activity of the enzyme toward the chromogenic substrate was then determined with a kinetic microplate reader at 405 nm. ICwas calculated fitting the triplicate data to a four parameter non linear regression. Compound 1 activated thrombin activity approximately 3 fold at 1 M. 

The ICvalues determined for these compounds against hepsin displayed a range of 0.28 2.31 M. Compounds 1 3 7 9 and 10 were subject to nucleophilic addition and they may have reacted with the serine protease active site serine O. Analysis of the structures of compounds 2 and 8 revealed a common chlorophenyl substituted thiadiazolurea core with compound 2 displaying higher specificity for hepsin. Compounds 5 and 6 shared a tetrahydro 3H cyclopenta c quinoline core with compound 5 displaying both higher potency and specificity. Compound 3 shared an indole moiety with LY178550 Chirgadze et al. 1997 6 1412 the N H of which forms a hydrogen bond to the O of the catalytic serine of thrombin.

Four total hits were identified from the NINDS II library of drugs and bioactive molecules compounds 13 16 . Interestingly compounds 13 and 14 meclizine and probucol were previously established as human use drugs with oral dosing and were identified herein as non cytotoxic hepsin inhibitors. Meclizine is an anti nausea drug that is available as an over the counter remedy for motion sickness. It displayed moderate potency 10 fold specificity and was able as shown in this Example to attenuate hepsin mediated pericellular proteolytic activity by 30 at 50 M. Probucol is an antihyperlipidemic agent developed for use in coronary artery disease and was a potent and specific in vitro inhibitors of hepsin proteolytic activity as shown in this Example. Without wishing to be bound by theory probucol may not have shown an ability to reduce pericellular serine protease activity in the cell based assay described in the present Examples due to its high hydrophobicity. This compound has an approximate log P value of 10 is known to be transported almost exclusively by lipoprotein vesicles in serum and to be delivered from these directly into the cell membrane Satonin et al. 1986 380 401 Wu et al. 2004 279 30168 . Water soluble analogues of probucol MDL 29311 and AGI 1067 have been synthesized Sheetz et al. 1994 43 233 Tardif et al. 2003 107 552 and as such the present inventors expressly contemplate these analogues as hepsin inhibitors for use according to certain herein described embodiments including as lead compounds for further development of additional hepsin inhibitors.

Compound 15 anthralin was previously identified as a topically administered anti psoratic agent. Compound 16 2 3 dyhydroxy 6 7 dichloroquinoxaline an NMDA receptor antagonist shared a tetrasubstituted pyrazine with amiloride a selective moderately potent uPA inhibitor Evans et al. 2000 66 460 .

Trypsin is a broadspectrum serine protease with roles in digestion defense development and blood coagulation. Thrombin is a chymotrypsin like serine protease that converts fibrinogen to fibrin and has other roles in blood coagulation. As shown in Table 1 several of the compounds had substantial selectivity for hepsin with some displaying up to 78 fold selectivity toward hepsin versus trypsin and 87 fold selectivity toward hepsin versus thrombin.

C. General Cellular Toxicity. To provide an estimate of cellular toxicity and the usefulness of the identified inhibitors in cell based systems general cellular toxicity assays were performed. For this purpose 20 M compounds were incubated with a variety of cell types including the mouse prostate epithelial cell line MP 1 the human hepatoma cell line HepG2 and the human prostate cancer cell line LNCaP . Compounds and media were replenished daily for three days. At the end of incubation cell viability was measured using an ATP luciferase coupled assay. Compounds 1 and 2 displayed substantial toxicity to LNCaP cells without affecting MP 1 or HepG2 cells. Compound 12 was substantially toxic to LNCaP and MP 1 cells without affecting HepG2 cells. Compound 15 a known inhibitor of cellular respiration metabolism and DNA synthesis Schmidt et al. 1996 156 4514 was toxic to all cell types particularly to LNCaP and HepG2 cells. Compounds 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 13 14 and 16 displayed limited or no cytotoxicity to these cells at this concentration.

D. Inhibition of Hepsin Dependent Pericellular Proteolytic Activity. To determine whether the identified compounds were able to inhibit cell based hepsin activity an assay was devised to measure hepsin dependent pericellular serine proteolytic activity Raynaud et al. 1992 151 378 Bauvois et al. 1990 20 459 Bauvois et al. 1992 22 923 Sameni et al. 2000 2 496 McGowen et al. 2000 60 4771 . For this purpose HEK 293FT transfectant cells were used that expressed either full length wild type murine hepsin SEQ ID NO 9 or catalytically inactive S352A mutant SEQ ID NO 12 hepsin proteins or that had been transfected with empty vector alone. Attached cell monolayers were incubated in assay buffer with peptide substrate and the reactions were allowed to proceed at 37 C. Samples were withdrawn at 20 40 and 60 minutes quenched into an equal volume of 7 acetic acid and absorbance at 405 nm measured with a microplate reader. Activity levels were adjusted by altering hepsin expression levels to within the linear range of detection. A positive linear rate of activity was observed only for wild type hepsin expressing cells and was abolished in the presence of the broad spectrum serine protease inhibitor PEFAbloc.

To determine the potential cytotoxicity of the previously identified hepsin inhibitors in this model system HEK 293FT cells were incubated under identical conditions with 20 and 50 M of the compounds and cytotoxicity was determined using the ATP luciferase coupled assay as described above . Compounds 12 and 15 displayed substantial toxicity at 50 M and were not further characterized. The remaining compounds at 20 and 50 M final concentration were incubated overnight with hepsin expressing cells and pericellular proteolytic activity was determined as described above .

As treatment with chemical compounds may alter hepsin expression level and thereby impact pericellular proteolytic activity hepsin levels in drug treated cells were determined via immunoblotting . Data are displayed in as pericellular proteolytic activity expression level relative to vehicle treated wild type hepsin expressing cells. Compounds 3 4 5 and 13 attenuated pericellular proteolytic activity in a dose dependent manner without substantially affecting hepsin expression levels or displaying overt toxicity. Of those tested Compounds 4 and 5 offered the most potent inhibition attenuating activity approximately 60 at 50 M. Compounds 3 and 13 reduced activity approximately 50 and 25 respectively at 50 M.

This Example describes effects of hepsin inhibitors that have been identified as described above on prostate cancer progression and metastasis in vivo.

LPB Tag PB Hepsin transgenic mice are prepared as described in Klezovitch et al. 2004 6 185 these animals exhibit early prostate cancer at about 10 weeks of age.

Regimen A. Groups of eight LPB Tag PB Hepsin transgenic mice aged 10 weeks are orally administered either compound 13 meclizine 0.1 wt wt or compound 14 probucol 1 wt wt or vehicle control each mixed with dry standard laboratory rodent chow. Meclizine and probucol are approved for oral administration to humans and were identified herein as non cytotoxic hepsin inhibitors as described above. Animals are maintained until aged 21 weeks at which point about half of the animals in each group develop metastatic prostate cancer. The animals are terminated by COinhalation dissected and the primary prostate and distal organs are analyzed histologically according to the methodologies of Klezovitch et al. 2004 . Scoring of histology tissues for metastatic lesions is performed to compare experimentally treated meclizine or probucol and control untreated animals.

Regimen B. Drug compounds are handled according to procedures found in the handbook of animal care practices HAMM of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center Seattle Wash. Chapter III Sections 12.11.2 and 12.11.3. Groups of eight LPB Tag PB Hepsin transgenic mice aged 10 weeks are intraperitoneally administered three times per week one of Compounds 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and 16 or vehicle control at a maximum tolerable dose as determined by an absence of signs of discomfort. These compounds were identified herein as non cytotoxic hepsin inhibitors as described above. Animals are maintained until aged 21 weeks at which point about half of the animals in each group develop metastatic prostate cancer. The animals are terminated by COinhalation dissected and the primary prostate and distal organs are analyzed histologically according to the methodologies of Klezovitch et al. 2004 . Scoring of histology tissues for metastatic lesions is performed to compare experimentally treated Compound 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 or 16 and control untreated animals.

All of the U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail to facilitate understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the described embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

