---

title: Event-based traffic routing
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for to creating an avoidance zone spatially proximate a venue, where the avoidance zone is created based upon identifying road segments where increased traffic congestion is expected due to an event at the venue. Information pertaining to the avoidance zone, such as a description of road segments to avoid and/or expected travel delays, may be provided to a route planner configured to develop vehicle routes. In this way, the route planner can take into consideration the impact of events on one or more road segments when planning a route.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09437107&OS=09437107&RS=09437107
owner: Inrix, Inc.
number: 09437107
owner_city: Kirkland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Demand on a road segment e.g. the number of vehicles on the road segment is often fluid fluctuating based upon among other things the time of day traffic accidents weather conditions road construction road closures and or local events e.g. which may draw a large number of attendees to a venue . As demand approaches and or exceeds capacity for the road traffic congestion may be created along the road segment and or drivers may experience delayed travel times along the road segment.

Route planners e.g. route navigation software are frequently configured to identify a temporally shortest route s between a starting location and an ending location and or to estimate the travel time for a route. While route planners frequently attempt to forecast traffic congestion along various road segments and or forecast expected travel times along respective road segments to accurately identify the temporally shortest route and or to estimate the travel time for a route such forecasting is often challenging due to the fluid nature of traffic congestion.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques are described herein for identifying road segments that are likely to be congested e.g. road segments where drivers are likely to experience slower speeds than typically experienced on the road segment due to an event at a venue. That is stated differently systems and or techniques are described for forecasting the impact if any on one or more road segments due an event such as a professional football game a convention a parade etc.

Initially a model is developed to forecast traffic congestion when provided a set of input parameters. The input parameters may include information pertaining to the weather street construction street closures and or the event itself such as a time of day when the event is to occur type of event e.g. a professional football game may attract larger crowds than a high school football game attendance information etc. Using this information the model may forecast traffic congestion e.g. in terms of expected vehicle speeds expected vehicle volume and or other measures of traffic congestion for respective road segments during periods of time approaching the event during the event and or after the event for example. Based upon such forecasting road segments where traffic congestion is likely to exceed a specified threshold e.g. roads segments where travel time is expected to increase by at least 5 minutes road segments where vehicle speeds are likely to drop by at least 20 etc. can be identified. An avoidance zone can then be generated using these identified road segments where the avoidance zone describes a region spatially proximate the venue where the event is likely to have a substantial impact on road segments.

In some embodiments a route planner configured to plan a route is provided information regarding the avoidance zone to assist in planning the route. In this way the route planner can take into consideration the impact that the event is likely to have on traffic flow when planning a route e.g. to plan a route that avoids the avoidance zone and or to provide an estimated travel time that takes into consideration the expected traffic congestion due to the event . Moreover information may be presented to the user regarding the event e.g. concurrently with the presentation of a route to inform the user about the event and or to explain to the user why the presented route was selected e.g. instead of an alternative route that would have caused the user to be routed through the avoidance zone .

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and or novel features of the disclosure may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Demand on road segments is frequently changing due to among other things time of day accidents weather construction road closures etc. Accordingly estimating the travel time between a starting location and an ending location and or identifying a temporally shortest route is often challenging particularly when forecasting travel times for future travel e.g. where conditions along a road segment at the time of travel may not mirror present conditions making it difficult to use present travel times as a good indicator of future travel times . In recent years models for forecasting future travel times have been developed that take into consideration cyclical or routine changes in vehicle volume. For example vehicle volume and or travels times during a rush hour may be predicted for a road segment based upon data regarding vehicle volume and or travel times for the road segment during past rush hours. However few if any models take into consideration the impact that local events such as concerts sporting events conferences parades etc. have on road segments.

Accordingly systems and or techniques are provided herein for forecasting traffic congestion along one or more road segments due to an event at a venue e.g. such as a stadium concert hall conference center etc. . Information about one or more events is uploaded into a system where the information may describe the type of event e.g. college football game high school football game concert etc. expected attendance at the event a starting time of the event and or a time window when the event is expected occur for example. Using such information a model may forecast traffic congestion on one or more road segments in close spatial proximity to the venue e.g. where a road segment may be an entire road or merely a portion of a road during times leading up to the event during the event and or during times following the event. More particularly the model may estimate vehicle speeds vehicle volumes vehicle density and or other measures of congestion to evaluate a degree to which congestion is likely to occur. Road segments where the degree of traffic congestion is likely to exceed a specified threshold e.g. road segments where the estimated vehicle speeds are impacted by at least 20 relative to a reference speed for the road segment may be identified and utilized to develop an avoidance zone spatially proximate the venue. The avoidance zone typically describes a region where traffic congestion is likely to occur due to an event and or where traffic congestion is likely to have an impact on travel times.

In some embodiments a route planner configured to generate a route s between a starting location and an ending location is provided with information regarding the avoidance zone which may be used by the route planner to identify alternate routes that would bypass the avoidance zone and or to update a travel time in view of the event. In other embodiments the information regarding the avoidance zone is provided to a client device and presented to the user e.g. to inform the user why an alternate route is being selected instead of a usual route the user may take between the starting location and the ending location .

Turning to an example method for traffic avoidance is provided. More particularly the method describes a technique for forecasting the impact of an upcoming event at a venue and or for routing a user based upon such a forecast e.g. where the impact of the event is forecast in terms of a degree to which the event is expected to impact traffic congestion . The method finds particular application to forecasting traffic congestion due to an event that is non cyclical and or an event that is cyclical but occurs infrequently e.g. the cycle time is more than a day or week . For example the method may find particular application when forecasting traffic congestion due to sporting events concert events plays conferences and or other scheduled events that typically draw a sufficient number of people to impact a number of vehicles on one or more road segments spatially proximate to e.g. surrounding a venue that is hosting the event to impact vehicle speeds along the one or more road segments and or vehicle density along the one or more road segments for example.

The example method begins at and information describing an event that is to occur at a venue is received at . By way of example a schedule of events for a venue may be received at . The schedule may include information pertaining to when respective events are to occur and or a type of event that is occurring e.g. professional basketball game professional hockey game concert etc. . Other examples of information that may be received at include predicted estimated attendance at the event a number of tickets sold for the event venue capacity for a venue hosting the event and or other information from which crowd attendance can be estimated etc. Still other examples of information that may be received at may relate to estimated vehicle influx for the event. For example information may be received from parking establishments indicative of parking forecast e.g. number of vehicles the parking establishment anticipates to intake for the event a number of reserved parking spaces for the event etc. .

The information may be received from any one or more of a variety of sources including data sources associated with the venue e.g. such as a website for the venue data sources associated with one or more government agencies e.g. such as data sources associated with a permit office a visitors bureau a local police agency etc. and or data sources associated with other private entities such as parking establishments and or ticket agencies from which tickets to the event may be acquired. Moreover the information received at may be pushed or pulled from respective one or more data sources. By way of example a crawler may be configured to crawl a list of predefined webpages to scrape information describing one or more events such as event schedules. As another example the venue may push information such as estimated attendance figures actual ticket sale information estimated vehicle influx etc. to a service configured to receive such information.

In still other embodiments information describing the event may be received from one or more social networking data sources such as a website hosted by a social networking service an electronic invitation service etc. By way of example users and or venues may create an event entry on a social networking website that describes the event. The social networking website may be periodically or intermittently scraped to acquire such event entries and or the social networking website may be configured to push data associated with such event entries to a service configured to receive such data e.g. information . In some embodiments the information received from social networking data sources may include an invited guest list an attendance list and or information pertaining to a number of users who like the event or otherwise associate with the event. By way of example an event entry on a social networking website may include a field that respective users can select if the user intends to attend the event. Information pertaining to a number of users who select the field may be provided at and used to predict estimate a number of attendees. In other embodiments status messages or other user inputted information pertaining to the event may be received at from the social networking website or other social networking data sources. By way of example information pertaining to a number of users of a social networking website whom have mentioned the event in status messages and or used a hash tag indicative of the event may be received at from the social networking website. In some embodiments the received information may be geo location specific. For example merely status information and or hash tag information from users within a specified spatial proximity of a venue hosting the event may be received at and or the received information may be filtered based upon a location of the user relative to the venue. In this way social media information may be harnessed to identify events that are to occur and or to determine additional information about the event such as a number of users likely to attend the event a likely demographic for the event etc.

In some embodiments based upon information initially received at additional information describing the event may be acquired. By way of example a schedule of events occurring at a venue may be initially received at and a service receiving the schedule of events may generate a request for additional information regarding an event s included in the schedule. Such a request may seek information from a local police agency regarding a number of officers assigned for traffic management during the event and or may seek information pertaining to one or more permits e.g. such as street closure permits from a government agency responsible for processing such permits for example. In this way additional information relevant to determining a number of attendees to an event an expected vehicle influx and or expected street congestion closures for example can be acquired.

At in the example method one or more road segments where a degree of traffic congestion above a specified threshold is likely to occur due to the event are identified. Traffic congestion generally may be defined in terms of vehicle speeds vehicle volume vehicle densities and or other measures of congestion. Accordingly where reference is made to forecasting a degree of traffic congestion it is to be appreciated that in practice one or more measures of congestion may be forecasted and compared to a specified threshold s for the measure s to identify road segments where the degree of traffic congestion is likely to exceed a specified threshold. By way of example a road segment where the event is expected to reduce vehicle speeds by 20 relative to a reference speed for the road segment may be identified at as likely to experience a degree of congestion above a specified threshold. As another example a road segment where travel time is expected to increase by at least five minutes relative to a typical travel time may be identified. As yet another example a road segment where vehicle density is expected to increase by 30 relative to a reference density for the road segment may be identified.

To identify such road segments the information received at is processed using analytic iterative or other processing techniques to forecast the degree of traffic congestion along respective road segments during a time window temporally proximate a time of the event. By way of example estimated or actual attendance figures may be used to estimate a number of vehicles expected for the event e.g. where a ratio such as 2 1 may be devised for estimating the number of vehicles driven to the event based upon the attendance figures and or to forecast how those vehicles are expected to impact respective road segments e.g. a degree of traffic congestion respective road segments are expected to experience . As still another example the location s of parking establishments spatially proximate the venue may be received at and used to forecast the degree of traffic congestion along respective road segments. By way of example it may be forecasted from attendance figures that approximately 5 000 vehicles are to be driven to the event. Moreover based upon the location of the parking garages spatially proximate the venue it may be forecasted that approximately 4 000 of those vehicles will park on a west side of the venue and the remaining 1 000 will park on the north side. Accordingly it may be forecasted that road segments on the northwest side of the venue may experience a higher degree of traffic congestion relative to the a degree of traffic congestion experienced along road segments on the south side or east side of the venue e.g. particularly if major thoroughfares such as highway on ramps are also located on the northwest side and thus vehicles do not have to travel from the south side or east side to reach the parking establishments .

In some embodiments a model may be devised for forecasting the degree of traffic congestion. By way of example and as will be described further with respect to a machine learning algorithm such as an artificial neural network Bayesian network etc. may be configured to develop a model to estimate the degree of traffic congestion based upon historical traffic data and historical information regarding past events at one or more venues e.g. such as an event schedule . Subsequently information received at may be input into the model to forecast the degree of congestion for one or more road segments. By way of example the information may describe a time of the event e.g. whether the event falls on a weekday or a weekend whether the event is in the morning or evening etc. a type of event to which an event corresponds e.g. whether the event is a professional sporting event high school sporting event nationally recognized conference etc. attendance information weather forecasts etc. The model may compare such information to historical information regarding past events e.g. at the same venue or at other venues and or the historical traffic data corresponding to such past events to forecast a degree of congestion along one or more road segments. For example the model may identify one or more past events that most closely resemble the event and may review traffic data during the one or more past events to forecast traffic congestion along one or more road segments spatially proximate the venue for a time window proximate the time of the event.

In some embodiments the type of event e.g. sporting event concert public conference etc. to which an event corresponds may have a substantial impact the degree to which traffic congestion occurs on one or more road segments and thus the model may also take into consideration the type of event. By way of example some conferences may be an all day event where participates are expected to arrive in the morning and stay until the evening. Other conferences such as a home show or a boat show may encourage attendees to freely come and go. Accordingly some conferences may have a prolonged impact on traffic congestion while others merely impact traffic congestion for a short period of time e.g. such as merely at the beginning or end of the conference and not during the duration of the conference . Moreover events where attendees arrive and or leave in mass may have a different e.g. greater impact on traffic congestion than events where attendees arrive and or leave more gradually.

In still other embodiments the model takes into consideration still other types of information. By way of example weather conditions proximate a time of the event may impact road segment capacity and or may impact the number attendees to an event and or local news media coverage of an event may impact the number of attendees to an event. Accordingly such information may also be retrieved and considered by the model when attempting to determine a degree of traffic congestion along road segments spatially proximate the venue hosting the event.

At in the example method an avoidance zone is generated based upon the road segments identified at where the degree of congestion is likely to exceed specified criteria. The avoidance zone describes a region spatially proximate the event where the event is likely to have a substantial impact on vehicle movement e.g. where vehicle speeds are expected to be 20 less than a reference speed for a road segment vehicle density is expected to increase relative to a reference density for the road segment etc. . Typically the avoidance zone further describes a region that users are suggested to avoid during a time window temporally proximate a time of the event.

In some embodiments the avoidance zone is created by identifying points along respective road segments where the degree of traffic congestion is expected to transition from above the specified threshold to below the specified threshold e.g. such as transitions from heavy volume to moderate or lite volume or vice versa. By way of example in some embodiments the degree of traffic congestion may be defined in terms of vehicle density e.g. the greater the density the higher the degree of traffic congestion . Accordingly for a first road segment a first point where the vehicle density is expected to transition between a first density below a first specified threshold e.g. a lite or moderate density for the first road segment and a second density above the first specified threshold e.g. a heavy density for the first road segment may be identified. Similarly for a second road segment a second point where vehicle density is likely to transition between a third density below a second specified threshold e.g. a lite or moderate volume for the second road segment and a fourth density above the second specified threshold e.g. a heavy volume for the second road segment may be identified. Such points e.g. along with similar points of other road segments may be subsequently used to define a parameter of the avoidance zone.

In other embodiments other techniques for generating an avoidance zone based upon the identified road segments are contemplated. For example the avoidance zone may comprise one or more subzones that further define how traffic congestion is expected to be impacted due to the event. For example a first subzone may comprise road segments where vehicle density is expected to be moderate due to the event e.g. and thus the event is likely to have at least some impact on travel times and a second subzone may describe road segments where vehicle density is expected to be heavier due to the event e.g. and thus the event is likely to have a more substantial impact on travel times . As another example the avoidance zone may be centered at the venue and may extend in a circular fashion to a diameter that causes the avoidance zone to include the road segment furthest away from the venue where the degree of traffic congestion is expected to be above a the specified threshold.

In some embodiment the avoidance zone may be adjusted during various portions of the event. For example during the hour leading up to a start of a baseball game roads surrounding a stadium may be inundated with vehicles as attendees arrive at the stadium causing a high degree of traffic congestion. The degree of congestion may substantially decrease during the game and may ramp up again near the end of the game. Accordingly the avoidance zone may be substantially larger in area before and after the game and may decrease in area e.g. or may disappear during the game for example. As another example the degree of traffic congestion may be revised as the event approaches and or during the event causing the avoidance zone to be altered in size area. For example as the event approaches attendance estimates may be revised and or real time traffic data in the hour leading up to the game may indicate that fewer people e.g. and fewer vehicles are expected at the event than initially estimated. Accordingly the avoidance zone may be revised in size based upon the revised attendance estimates and or real time traffic data. In this way the size and or scope of the avoidance zone e.g. which road segments are encompassed within the avoidance zone may be adjusted dynamically as additional information is received that facilitates refinement of the initial forecast regarding traffic congestion for example.

The avoidance zone describes a region where the event is likely to have an impact or a substantial impact on traffic congestion and information pertaining to the avoidance zone is published at . Such information may include the geographic location s of the avoidance zone information describing the event and or venue e.g. such as the type of event start time of the event expected end time of the event etc. and or estimate travel times one or more along road segments included in the avoidance zone. The avoidance zone may be published at regular intervals and or on demand e.g. such as upon receipt of a request to plan a route for example. Moreover the avoidance zone may be published merely within a system of servers e.g. so that devices and or users external to the system cannot view such information may be published to client devices and or may be published on publically accessible servers e.g. such as viewable via an Internet website for example .

At in the example method a route is computed for navigating a user between a first location e.g. starting location and a second location e.g. ending location or destination as a function of the avoidance zone. By way of example a user may desire to travel across the city to visit a fresh produce market and request directions to the market from his her current location. Typically such a route may cause the user to travel on one or more road segments included within the avoidance zone. However based upon the published information the route planner may identify an alternate route that avoids the one or more road segments included within the avoidance zone and or may provide an estimated travel time that factors in the increased traffic congestion along the one or more road segments due to the event and included within the avoidance zone.

It may be appreciated that in some embodiments an avoidance zone may not be established when a route is initially planned and the route planner may be configured to update the route periodically and or intermittently based upon newly generated published avoidance zones. By way of example a user may request that the route planner devise a route from Washington D.C. to Florida. The route planner may devise an initial route e.g. a temporally shortest route and may verify that no portions of the initial route are encompassed within an avoidance zone. However while the user is in transit and prior to the user passing through Atlanta an avoidance zone may be generated near Atlanta that includes a segment of a highway listed in the initial route. When the route planner receives information about the newly generated avoidance zone the route planner may compute an updated travel time if the initial route is maintained and or update the route in view of an alternate route that will decrease travel time for example.

The table includes an event column an event type column an estimated attendance column and an estimated vehicle influx column . Respective rows are indicative of a single event. The table also includes a parking map which illustrates the location of the venue e.g. represented at the asterisk relative to one or more parking garages e.g. represented by the squares and surrounding road segments.

The event column lists a scheduled time of respective events e.g. date starting time and approximate duration and the event type column lists the type of event to occur. The estimated attendance column lists the estimated attendance for the event and the estimated vehicle influx column lists how many additional vehicles are expected to be in an area proximate the venue due to the event. In some embodiments the estimated vehicle influx may be provided to a service configured to receive information pertaining to the event such as by a government agency responsible for managing traffic and or by a parking establishment. In other embodiments the estimated vehicle influx may be derived based upon among other things estimated attendance and or historical traffic data regarding other similar events at the venue. For example based upon historical traffic data it may be determined that there is approximately a 2 1 ratio between attendance and vehicle volume for a professional basketball game at a stadium. As another example the ratio between attendees and vehicles at a children s concert during a week day may be much lower ratio e.g. 16 1 because children often commute to such concerts via school buses.

The parking map may be used to estimate which road segments attendees are likely to travel to arrive at the venue or rather to arrive at a parking establishment. For example a first parking establishment spatially nearest the venue may have a vehicle capacity of 5 000 vehicles and a second parking establishment which is the next spatially nearest parking establishment may have a vehicle capacity of 7 500 vehicles. Accordingly during the country concert it may be predicted that road segments spatially proximate the first and second parking establishments may be substantially impacted by the concert while road segments proximate other parking establishments may not be impacted e.g. because the first and second parking establishments can accommodate all of the vehicles and are closer to the venue . As another example the cost of parking at various parking establishments may be utilized to determine where users are likely to park and thus the impact the event is likely to have on respective road segments.

The avoidance zone e.g. represented by the dash dot dot line describes a region spatially proximate a venue that may be impacted due to the event e.g. and thus users may want to avoid due to the impact of the event on travel times . In the illustrated embodiment the avoidance zone is centered at the venue and extends radially to include road segments where heavy traffic congestion is expected during the time window temporally proximate the time of the event. For example in the illustrated embodiment the point furthest away from the venue where heavy traffic congestion is expected is the point indicated by reference character . Accordingly the circumference of the avoidance zone intersects the point and an area encompassed within the circumference includes road segments where heavy traffic congestion is forecasted and other road segments that are located closer to the venue than the point e.g. which may include road segments where traffic congestion is not expected to be heavy and or where insufficient historical information exists from which to forecast traffic congestion .

It is to be appreciated that while the illustrated embodiment depicts a circular avoidance zone in other embodiments the avoidance zone may be non circular. By way of example in some embodiments the avoidance zone is defined to merely include road segments where traffic congestion above a specified degree is expected during the time window temporally proximate the time of the event. Accordingly the shape of the avoidance zone may be a function of where such road segments are located. Moreover in still other embodiments a plurality of avoidance zones may be associated with an event. For example a first avoidance zone may be generated that encompasses road segments where vehicle speed is expected be substantially impacted e.g. vehicle speed is expected to drop by 20 relative to a reference speed for the road segment and a second avoidance zone may be generated that encompasses road segments where vehicle speed is expected to be less impacted e.g. vehicle speed is expected to drop between 10 and 20 relative to the reference speed . Further although the example avoidance zone is centered at the venue in some embodiments the avoidance zone may not be centered at the venue and or may not include the venue . By way of example parking establishments may be predominately located spatially proximate a northwest corner of the venue . Accordingly the avoidance zone may be defined as a region that includes such parking establishments and may or may not include the venue itself.

The example system comprises a modeling component a zone creation component a publication component and a route planner although one or more of the foregoing components may be part of a client device . For example the route planner may be part of a client device and may receive information regarding avoidance zones and or other routing information e.g. such as present traffic conditions via the system .

The modeling component is configured to develop a model for identifying one or more road segments where the degree of traffic congestion due to an event at a venue is likely to exceed a specified threshold. That is stated differently the modeling component is configured to forecast traffic congestion due to an event using analytic iterative or other forecasting techniques. In some embodiments the modeling component may develop a forecasting model using one or more machine learning techniques such as a Bayesian networks artificial neural network clustering etc. which evaluate historical information e.g. a history of events at a venue and or a history of traffic patterns for one or more road segments to develop a model describing a likely outcome given a set of one or more inputs. By way of example an event schedule describing past events may be compared to historical traffic data to evaluate how respective events impacted traffic congestion along one or more road segments and to develop a correlative relationship between various events and their impact on traffic congestion. In this way a model can be developed that forecast traffic congestion e.g. or a measure of traffic congestion such as vehicle speed vehicle volume vehicle density etc. along one or more road segments for a given future event. Moreover in some embodiments the modeling component is configured to further refine or update the model based upon differences between forecasted traffic congestion for an event and actual traffic data corresponding to the event e.g. so that the model is continually refined as additional data is acquired .

To develop a forecast of traffic congestion for one or more road segments proximate a venue where an event is to be held the modeling component is configured to receive information about the event such as information pertaining to when the event is to occur a type of event to occur venue capacity at the venue hosting the event estimated attendance ticket sales reserved parking relative location of the venue to nearby parking establishments number of parking spaces available at nearby parking establishments weather forecast for the event media coverage of the event number and or cost of advertisements targeting the event etc. Typically the greater the amount of information available to the model the more accurate the estimate. Accordingly in some embodiments the modeling component is further configured to evaluate the received information to determine whether to request additional information. By way of example the modeling component may initially merely receive an event schedule and determine that based merely upon the event schedule that number of vehicles expected for an event may range from 5 000 15 000 e.g. making it difficult to forecast which road segments might be congested . Accordingly the modeling component may request additional information. For example the modeling component may request information pertaining to estimated attendance pertaining to media coverage e.g. a sporting event between rival teams may increase attendance and be more widely covered in the news media than a sporting event between two teams that are not rivals etc.

The zone creation component is configured to generate an avoidance zone spatially proximate the venue where an event is held. The avoidance zone typically describes one or more road segments that are likely to be impacted due to the traffic congestion and thus users may desire to avoid during a time window temporally proximate to a time of the event. Stated differently the avoidance zone describes road segments that are likely to be congested due to an event and in some embodiments further describes estimated travel times along one or more road segments within the avoidance zone before during and or after the event.

The zone creation component is typically configured to generate or develop the avoidance zone based upon forecasted information provided by the modeling component . By way of example the zone creation component may be configured to generate the avoidance zone based upon the one or more road segments identified by the modeling component as likely to experience a degree of traffic congestion due the event that exceeds a specified threshold.

In some embodiments the avoidance zone may merely comprise those road segments where the degree of traffic congestion is expected to be above the specified threshold. In other embodiments the avoidance zone may further comprise road segments where the degree of traffic congestion is expected to be less than the specified threshold and or road segments where insufficient traffic data is available from which to forecast traffic congestion. By way of example traffic sensors may not measure vehicle counts on alleyways or side streets that connect two or more higher capacity road segments. Accordingly there may be little to no historical traffic data from which to forecast traffic congestion along such alleyways or side streets. However due to the spatial proximity of one or more alleyways or side streets to a road segment where the degree of traffic congestion is forecasted to be above a specified threshold the zone creation component may develop the avoidance zone in a manner that includes such side streets or alleyways for example e.g. because it is likely such alleyways or side streets will also be congested if a nearby road segment is likely to be congested .

Moreover it may be appreciated that in some embodiments the zone creation component may be configured to further update the avoidance zone based upon changes in one or more inputs to the model e.g. a change to one or more conditions associated with the event . By way of example additional tickets sales in the hours before an event may cause the modeling component to update forecasted traffic congestion for one or more road segments which in turn may cause the zone creation component to update the avoidance zone. As another example traffic data acquired in the hour leading up to the event may indicate that the influx of vehicles for the event was less than expected. Accordingly the modeling component may downwardly adjust traffic congestion forecast for after the event and the zone creation component may update the avoidance zone accordingly.

The publication component is configured to publish information pertaining to the avoidance zone. For example the publication component may publish Global Positioning Satellite GPS coordinates or other locational coordinates describing a parameter of the avoidance zone and or may publish a list of road segments included within the avoidance zone. In others embodiments the publication component may publish information describing an estimated time window when the avoidance zone is in effect and or estimated travel times for one or more road segments included within the avoidance zone. In still other embodiments the publication component may publish information about an event to which the avoidance zone pertains. By way of example the publication component may publish a description of the event and or other information which informs the user about the event and or the reason for the avoidance zone.

Typically the publication component is configured to publish the information pertaining to the avoidance zone to the route planner which is configured to generate one or more routes for navigating a user from a starting location to an ending location. Accordingly where the route planner is part of the system such a publication may occur internally within a network of one or more computer systems for example e.g. providing the information to a server running a routing application configured to compute one or more preferred routes . In other embodiments the route planner may be part of a client device . Accordingly the publication component may be configured to publish information pertaining to the avoidance zone to one or more client devices via the communication device for example. In still other embodiments the publication component may publish the information pertaining to the avoidance zone to one or more client devices regardless of the location of the route planner . By way of example the publication component may publish a message such as via an in application messaging system SMS messaging etc. describing the avoidance zone. As an example the publication component may publish a message notifying one or more client devices that higher than normal traffic congestion is expected in a vicinity of a venue due to an event at the venue for example.

The route planner of the example system is configured to receive a desired starting location and a desired ending location and to generate one or more routes for navigating a user between the starting location and the ending location. Where multiple routes are available between the starting location and the ending location the route planner may be further configured to identify one or more preferred routes using analytic iterative or other routing techniques. A preferred route typically is a route that more closely satisfies one or more specified criteria than other available routes. For example in some embodiments the route planner may be configured to identify a temporally shortest route or a spatially shortest route. In other embodiments the route planner may be configured to identify the three temporally shortest routes as preferred routes and or may be configured to identify two preferred routes a first preferred route being the temporally shortest route and a second preferred route being the spatially shortest route.

The route planner is configured to give consideration to information regarding avoidance zones that has been published by the publication component when determining a preferred route and or when estimating a travel time and or an arrival time at the destination. By way of example when an event is not occurring at a venue or low attendance event is occurring at the venue the preferred route e.g. the temporally shortest route may be a route that causes the user to travel a road segment adjacent the venue. However when the information regarding an avoidance zone indicates that substantial traffic congestion is expected near the venue the preferred route e.g. the temporally shortest route may be a route that bypasses one or more road segments neighboring the venue.

Where the route planner is located within the system and not part of a client device the route planner may be further configured to transmit one or more preferred routes to a client device requesting such information. In this way a client device receives data for routing the user between the starting location and the ending location for example.

In some embodiments when an avoidance zone affects the selection of a preferred route e.g. when a different route would have been selected if an event was not taking place at the venue and or impacts the estimated travel time of the preferred route the graphical user interface may be further configured to present the avoidance zone within the mapping field and or to display within the event field a notice explaining why the preferred route was selected. In this way the user is made aware of the event to reduce the probability that the user will override the route planner and take a different route that intersects the avoidance zone e.g. because under normal circumstances the different route may be faster .

By way of example the temporally shortest route between the starting location and the ending location may typically be a route that includes a road segment adjacent a venue e.g. where the route is shown by the dashed line and thus such a route may be typically presented as the preferred route. However due to a hockey game set to begin in an hour and a half it is expected that congestion along the road segment adjacent a venue for the hockey game will increase substantially by the time the user is traveling the road segment adjacent the venue leading to a delayed commute for the user. Accordingly the route planner may determine that the temporally shortest route in this instance e.g. the preferred route is a route that normally would result in a longer commute than the route . As such the graphical user interface may be configured to display within the event field a notice explaining why a route that typically has a longer travel time was selected as the preferred route and or may be configured to display the avoidance zone within the mapping field for example.

In some embodiments the navigation program and or graphical user interface may include additional features not depicted herein. For example in some embodiments portions of the graphical user interface are selectable by a user to alter the interface and or display additional features. By way of example the graphical user interface may present the user with an option to select the event field to obtain additional information about the event and or to purchase tickets for the event.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R a platter of a hard disk drives flash drive application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of processor executable instructions which when executed via a processing unit s is configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some such embodiments the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In other such embodiments the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary environment of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In an embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In an embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art may realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In an embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering may be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it may be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. e.g. a first channel and a second channel generally corresponds to channel A and channel B where channel A and channel B may be two different channels two identical channels and or the same channel .

Although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications may occur to others skilled in the art based at least in part upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

