---

title: Mapping identifying information
abstract: A technology is described for making a decision based on identifying without disclosing the identifying information. The method may include receiving a mapping value that represents identifying information that has been converted into a mapping value. A request for data associated with the identifying information may be made by providing the mapping value as a proxy for the identifying information whereby the data associated with the identifying information may be located using the mapping value and returned to a requesting client or service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129118&OS=09129118&RS=09129118
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09129118
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130503
---
Third party computer systems may often request information that may be considered sensitive in nature to a first party which has collected the information from an individual user. For instance information that may be used to identify an individual may be considered sensitive information due to the privacy concerns of individuals and privacy policies adopted by businesses. In order to perform certain functions some systems may request access to personally identifiable information PII . For example a shipping system may provide a shipping price quote based upon a customer s address. A shipper may charge different prices depending upon where an item is to be shipped. Therefore the shipping system may request the customer s shipping address before the shipping system will provide a shipping price quote. Although the shipping system may request a customer s address a business may be reluctant to provide the shipping system with the customer s address because the customer s address may be considered personally identifiable information PII that a business may prefer not to share with the shipping system.

Although the amount of personally identifiable information PII shared with a system may be reduced to a minimal amount the minimal amount of personally identifiable information shared with the system may be enough information to allow a rogue individual or entity to make a positive identification based on the supplied personal identifiable information. For example in order to provide a shipping quote a shipping system may request a customer s zip code. Although the customer s zip code may be minimal personally identifiable information an interested individual or entity may use the customer s zip code combined with other information to determine certain identity information for a person.

A technology is provided for making decisions based on identifying information without disclosing the identifying information by using a mapping value as a substitute for the identifying information. A mapping value may be an identifier used to reference affiliated data that may be associated with identifying information. In one example a mapping value may be derived from identifying information by using a hash function to convert the identifying information into a hash value i.e. mapping value that may be stored in a hash value set. The resulting hash value may then be used in place of the identifying information to retrieve data linked to the hash value set. Data associated with the identifying information affiliated data may be associated with a hash value set. The affiliated data may be identified by a hash value reference that matches a hash value used to lookup the affiliated data. In another example a service may arbitrarily assign a mapping value to represent identifying information and affiliated data may then be linked to the mapping value. For purposes of convenience the example of a mapping value using a hash function to derive a hash value from identifying information is primarily used throughout this specification. Referencing affiliated data using a mapping value rather than the actual identifying information may protect the identifying information from system vulnerabilities. For example some systems may include client modules that may make requests to other modules e.g. web services within the system for information. Sometimes a client module may make a request for information that may be considered sensitive such as information that may identify a person or an entity. Using the described technology may allow a client to make requests for information related to identifiable information without directly possessing the identifiable information.

One category of information that may be protected within a system may be personally identifiable information. Personally identifiable information may be information that may be used alone or in combination with other information to identify contact or locate a person or to determine an identity of a person in context. For example personally identifiable information may be maintained by a business or a government and may include information that can be used to distinguish or trace a person s identity such as a name home address social security number date and place of birth mother s maiden name biometric records and any other information that may be linked or may be linkable to a person including medical records education financial information and or employment information. Of course many more items may be added to the list of personally identifiable information.

Many countries and local governments have enacted privacy laws and standards that protect personally identifiable information. As a result of the focus on protecting personally identifiable information and the possible consequences associated with failing to protect personally identifiable information the technology disclosed in this specification may enable businesses governments and or individuals to protect personally identifiable information contained in a system by obfuscating or hiding the personally identifiable information. Using one example the technology may hide the personally identifiable information by employing a method that may use a hash function to generate a hash value for the personally identifiable information or a portion e.g. a number of characters of the personally identifiable information. The hash value may then be used in a lookup or search transaction as a proxy for the actual personally identifiable information. A tradeoff in storage space in return for information security may result in using the technology. This may be because of the additional space that may be needed to store a set of hash values. For instance an actual value for a range may be stored in a single row of a table whereas a range represented as a set of hash values may be stored in multiple rows of a table to represent the range. Therefore storing a hash value set to represent a range of values may necessitate additional storage space in a table as compared to storing an actual range value. Hashed set values that represent ranges may also overlap and increase the rows that may be stored due to overlapping sets that may contain duplicate hashed values representing duplicated underlying values.

The present technology may be used to hide any type of sensitive information whether the information may be personally identifiable information PII or some other type of private information. The term personally identifiable information PII may be used throughout this discussion with the understanding that the present technology is not limited to information deemed as personally identifiable information PII .

For example a client may be tasked with retrieving information about shipping rates based on a customer s zip code. Because a customer s zip code may be personally identifiable information the zip code may be shared with as few of the components and services of the system as possible. Therefore rather than give the client the customer s actual zip code the client may be provided with a substitute to a customer s zip code that may be used to retrieve information associated with the customer s zip code. One example of a substitute may be a hash value generated by providing a portion of the customer s personally identifiable information to a hash function. The hashing service may be used to provide the hash value to the client . For example a client may be provided with a customer ID that may be sent to the hashing service . The hashing service may use the customer ID to select or retrieve personally identifiable information that may be associated with the customer ID. For example the hashing service may have access to a data store that may contain customer information. Included in the data store may be customer information that may be considered personally identifiable information e.g. zip code . The hashing service may query the data store for the desired personally identifiable information associated with the customer ID.

Upon receiving a customer s personally identifiable information the hashing service may in one example create a hash value from the personally identifiable information. The resulting hash value may then be used to lookup affiliated data in a data store where a range of affiliated data may be referenced using the hash value. As a specific example a shipper may set shipping rates according to a range of zip codes where the shipper may deliver. The range of zip codes that the shipper may deliver to may be stored in a data store as a set of hash values where each hash value represents a single zip code. The hash value created by the hashing service may be used by the lookup service to lookup the shipping rate associated with the hash value set that contains the matching hash value created by the hashing service .

In another example rather than converting an entire field or entire alpha numeric string of the personally identifiable information into a hash value a portion of the personally identifiable information may be converted into a hash value. For instance the first three characters or values of the personally identifiable information may be used to generate a hash value. The hash value may then be used as a substitute for the personally identifiable information and may act as a lookup e.g. an index to the affiliated data in the data store associated with the personally identifiable information. As a more specific example in a case where the personally identifiable information is a zip code the hashing service may convert the first two three or four digits of the zip code to a hash value. The hash value produced by the hashing service may match hash values in a table or index for information associated with personally identifiable information that may be stored in a data store accessible to the lookup service . Instead of containing actual personally identifiable information the tables contained in the data store may store a hash value or be referenced by a hash value that represents the personally identifiable information. In addition the data store may contain a set or grouping of hash values representing a range of personally identifiable information. For example upon ingesting information into a data store personally identifiable information associated with information contained in the data store may be converted into a hash value and may be used as a lookup for the information.

In one example the determination of how many characters of the personally identifiable information used to generate a hash value may be based upon how a range of information may be stored and or referenced in a data store that the lookup service may query. For example in a case where a data store may store shipping information referenced by a hash value representing a zip code range the hash value representing the zip code range may be generated using the first four digits of the zip code. For instance using the five digit zip code 98016 if the first four digits are converted to a hash value the resulting hash value may represent a zip code range of 98010 to 98019. Depending upon the number of digits that are converted into a hash value the zip code range may be expanded or reduced.

In another example the number of characters of personally identifiable information used to generate a hash value may be determined by how a method may use the present technology. For example the technology may be used for a partial lookup service. The partial lookup service may use a hash value representing a part of some personally identifiable information and then return any information that has a lookup hash value e.g. an index matching the hash value. For instance the first three characters of personally identifiable information may be provided to a client and converted into a hash value by the hashing service . The client may then provide the hash value to the lookup service which may then query a data store for information that may be associated with hash value.

Returning to after generating a hash value the hashing service may then provide the client with the hash value. The client may then send the hash value to the lookup service as part of a request for information associated with personally identifiable information. For example the client may request shipping information for a zip code associated with a customer ID. The client may send a hash value to the lookup service representing a range of zip codes along with the size and weight of the item being shipped.

Upon receiving the request from the client the lookup service may then query a data store table that may be referenced by hash values representing personally identifiable information. Upon finding a match for the hash value e.g. in a table the data store may return the information that may be associated with the hash value representing the personally identifiable information to the lookup service . The lookup service may then provide the client with the information. Continuing the example above where the client requested shipping information for a zip code the lookup service may query a shipping information data store for shipping information for the zip code range represented by the hash value provided by the client . A range of zip codes may be stored in a shipping information data store as a set of hash values representing the range of zip codes. For example each zip code within the range may be represented by a separate hash value. The shipping rate and carrier associated with the zip code range may be duplicated over the hash value set. The lookup service may query the shipping information data store for a row matching the hash value and may then provide the client with the shipping rate and carrier associated with the zip code returned to the lookup service . Alternatively because a shipper may set shipping rates based upon a range of zip codes e.g. the same shipping rate applies to the range of zip codes 98010 to 98019 the range may be stored in the shipping information data store in a single row with a hash value as a reference to the row. For example the value may be converted to a hash value that represents the zip code range 98010 98019. The query may return to the lookup service the shipping rate and carrier associated with the hash value e.g. 9801 .

A hashing service module may provide to a client a hash value generated from personally identifiable information and or by selecting a sub set of information e.g. a number of characters from personally identifiable information. The hashing service module may use any one of a number of hash functions to produce a hash value. Useful hash functions may include but are not limited to National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST recognized cryptographic hash functions. Among such cryptographic hash functions may be secure hash algorithm 1 SHA 1 message digest algorithm 5 MD5 and or a hash based message authentication code HMAC . The hashing service module may receive an identifier from a client and the identifier may be used to identify personally identifiable information. For example an identifier may be information used to identify an individual. More specifically an identifier may include a customer ID that may be a randomly generated number or an alpha numeric string that may be uniquely associated with a customer. In another example an identifier may be a name a phone number email address customer number employer ID etc. The hashing service module may use the identifier to retrieve personally identifiable information that may be associated with the identifier. For example in a case where the identifier may be a customer ID the hashing service module may query a customer data store for a customer s personally identifiable information associated with the customer ID.

Personally identifiable information may be any type of information that may be used to ascertain a customer. For example personally identifiable information may include a customer s given name middle name surname maiden name home address shipping address billing address home phone number cell phone number birth date age social security number driver license number employer marital status medical health status etc. Because of the sensitivity of a customer s personally identifiable information in some examples personally identifiable information may be constrained to one place within the system . Therefore any service that may have rights to use personally identifiable information may make a request to the customer data store for personally identifiable information . Some system service modules may be granted access to personally identifiable information while other service modules may not be granted direct access to personally identifiable information and therefore may make a request for personally identifiable information via the hashing service module . For example a client may not have permission to access personally identifiable information and so must request a hash value from the hashing service module to use as a substitute for the actual personally identifiable information .

A client or any other service module that may send a request to the hashing service module may include the personally identifiable information that may be wanted in a request. As an illustration in order to lookup telephone service provider rates for a customer s area code and prefix a client may request from the hashing service module the customer s phone number. Because the client may be requesting the customer s phone number to obtain information related to the customer s area code and prefix the client may include a parameter in the request that may specify a number of characters from the customer s phone number to convert into a hash value. For example the client s request may look like the following application programming interface API call requestHashValue customerID phoneNumber numOfChar where numOfChar may be equal to a range of characters from 0 to 5. Upon receiving the request the hashing service module may then query the customer data store for a phone number that may be associated with the customer ID. The hashing service module may then create a hash value from the first six digits of the phone number i.e. the area code and prefix and return the hash value to the client . By providing the client with a hash value that represents the customer s area code and prefix rather than giving the client the actual phone number the customer s personally identifiable information may be hidden from the client .

As an added measure to protect a hash value representing personally identifiable information from attempted exploits the hash value may be encrypted by the client or the originating hashing service module and decrypted by a module receiving the encrypted hash value. As an example a keyed hash message authentication code HMAC may be used to generate a hash value using personally identifiable information. As an example of a HMAC the client may provide a secret key and use a hash function such as SHA 1 or MD5 to generate a HMAC hash value. Also other encryption techniques such as RSA encryption may be used by first creating a hash value from personally identifiable information and then encrypting the resulting hash value.

Included in the computing device may be a lookup service module . The lookup service module may be configured to retrieve affiliated data associated with personal identifying information from an information data store . In one example the affiliated data may be identified by a hash value contained in a lookup data store that matches the hash value provided by the hashing service module . Upon identifying the affiliated data associated with the matching hash values the affiliated data may be returned to the service module that requested the affiliated data . For example a client that may have received a hash value from the hashing service module may use the hash value as a substitute for a customer s personally identifiable information . The client may now request affiliated data that may be associated with the customer s personally identifiable information by providing the lookup service module with the hash value along with a request for the affiliated data .

In one example the lookup service module may query a lookup data store that may contain hash values and a reference to affiliated data that may be associated with the hash values. For example the lookup data store may contain a table with a first column that contains a number of hash values and a second column that contains a reference to the affiliated data associated with the hash value in the first column. The hash value contained in the first column of the table in the lookup data store may represent a range of personally identifiable information values. As an illustration in a case where the hash value in the lookup table may represent phone numbers the hash value may represent a range of phone numbers. For instance if the hash value represents the phone number 867 5309 and the first six digits of the phone number are converted to a hash value then the resulting hash value may represent the range of phone numbers 867 5300 to 867 5399. The affiliated data referenced by the second column of the lookup data store would be affiliated data associated with the phone number range 867 5300 to 867 5399. For example the affiliated data may be a phone service provider that provides the least expensive phone service for the range of phone numbers.

In another example the lookup data store may contain hash values that may be used to perform a partial lookup. For example the first column of the lookup data store may contain a number of hash values representing a part of the personal identifiable information and the second column of the lookup data store may contain a number of references to affiliated data that may be associated with the hash value. As an illustration the hash value may have been created using the first three digits of a phone number i.e. the area code and the references associated with the hash value may be to customer complaints received from the area code.

And in a further example affiliated data may be directly referenced by a set of hash value references that may provide a one to one match for a hash value representing personally identifiable information . For example upon ingesting a range of phone numbers into the information data store the range of phone numbers may be converted into a set of hash values. As an example the phone number range 867 5300 to 867 5309 may result in a set of ten affiliated data rows where each row may be referenced by a hash value representing a phone number in the phone number range.

In order to hide personally identifiable information from as many components of the system as possible personally identifiable information ingested into the information data store may be used to create a hash value lookup e.g. index for the personally identifiable information. The hash value lookup may then be associated with the affiliated data that relates to the personally identifiable information used to create the hash value lookup and then the personally identifiable information may be deleted from the information data store . Thereafter the affiliated data may be identified by the associated hash value lookup. For example in the case where the phone number 867 5309 may be ingested into the information data store the phone number may be associated with a specific phone service provider. Upon ingesting the data the phone number may be used to generate a hash value lookup. The hash value lookup may be associated with the specific phone service provider and then the phone number 867 5309 may be deleted from the information data store .

Upon identifying the affiliated data associated with the hash value the lookup service module may return to the client the requested affiliated data . As a result of the system configuration personally identifiable information may be constrained to a single source such as the customer data store and other service modules clients and data stores within the system may be provided with a hash value substitute for the personally identifiable information rather than the actual personally identifiable information.

A client included in the system may be a device that sends and receives data over a network or may be a service module that executes on a computing device. In one example a client may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computing device. Such a computing device may contain one or more processors one or more memory modules and a graphical user interface . A client may be a device such as but not limited to a server desktop computer laptop or notebook computer tablet computer or other devices with client capability. The client may include a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen gas plasma based flat panel display LCD projector cathode ray tube CRT or other types of display devices etc.

The computing device may comprise for example a server or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a number of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of computing devices may be employed in the various arrangements as described above. The computing device may contain various processes and or other functionality that may be executed on one or more processors that are in communication with one or more memory modules according to various examples. Various data may be stored in one or more data stores that are accessible to the computing device . For example the computing device may contain a customer data store and an information data store . The term data store may refer to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing organizing and or retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers relational databases object oriented databases cloud storage systems data storage devices data warehouses flat files and data storage configuration in any centralized distributed or clustered environment. The storage system components of the one or more data stores may include storage systems such as a SAN Storage Area Network cloud storage network volatile or non volatile RAM optical media or hard drive type media.

The network may include any useful computing network including an intranet the Internet a local area network a wide area network a wireless data network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components utilized for such a system may depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Communication over the network may be enabled by wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In addition various service modules and clients may communicate using a local communication interface such as a local data bus and or any related address or control busses.

In one example personally identifiable information may be obfuscated by a hashing service that may execute on a customer information server that may be accessible as a web service over the Internet . Also located on the customer information server may be a data store containing personally identifiable information for a number of customers. The client may make a request to an affiliated data server for data relating to a customer s personally identifiable information. In one example the request may include a customer identifier and the data wanted. Because the affiliated data server may not have access to a customer s personally identifiable information the affiliated data server may obtain proxy information e.g. a hash code from the customer information server for the customer s personally identifiable information. So the affiliated data server may send to the customer information server a request for a hash value by providing the customer identifier received from the client the type of personally identifiable information e.g. zip code email address etc. that is to be converted to a hash value and in some cases a range that specifies a number of characters of the personally identifiable information to convert to a hash value. The customer identifier may be used to lookup the associated customer s personally identifiable information on the customer information server and then the type of personally identifiable information requested may be retrieved. A hashing service executing on the customer information server may employ a hashing function to create a hash value for the personally identifiable information requested by the client and the resulting hash value may then be returned to the affiliated data server .

The affiliated data server may include a data store containing data that may be associated with a number of customer s personally identifiable information. As mentioned earlier in order to limit the number of components within the system that have direct access to the personally identifiable information the data contained in the data store may be referenced using a hash value rather than by the personally identifiable information. As an example data that may be associated with a range of social security numbers may be stored in a data store as a set of hash values referencing the data. A social security number may be converted into a hash value and used to lookup the associated data in the hash set. In another example where a hash value may represent a range of social security numbers the data associated with the range of social security numbers may be stored in a table in the data store. The rows of the table may be referenced by hash values one of which may correspond with the hash value provided by the customer information server . The affiliated data server may retrieve the data requested by the client from a table with row that has a reference corresponding with the hash value provided by the customer information server . The data may then be provided to the client by the affiliated data server thereby limiting the personally identifiable information to a single component of the system i.e. the customer information server and providing other components of the system with a hash value rather than the customer s personally identifiable information.

Moving now to an example of a method to obfuscate a customer s personal identifiable information when looking up shipping rates is illustrated. A shipping schedule service may provide shipping information such as shippers rates routes pickups destinations etc. to other services and or modules that may request such information. A shipping schedule service may maintain a table of shippers that provides information for shippers that ship items to particular zip codes and an associated rate or cost. Rather than store zip codes in the table of shippers which may be considered personally identifiable information hash values representing a range of zip codes may be stored as substitutes for the actual zip code. Because a shipping table containing an actual zip code may be referenced based upon a zip code range e.g. 98100 98109 a range may be stored in a single row of the table e.g. 9810 representing zip codes 98100 to 98109 followed by another row containing the next contiguous range e.g. 9811 representing zip codes 98110 to 98119 . Alternatively a zip code range may be stored as a set in a shipping table e.g. row 1 98100 row 2 98101 row 3 98102 etc. and a zip code range may be selected from the shipping table by selecting a row from the set. The same may not be true for hash values representing a range of zip codes. As an illustration for the range of zip codes 98100 to 98102 the hash value for the following range of zip codes may be 

Based upon an alphanumeric sort the hash values above may not be stored contiguously but may be identifiable as part of the set. As a result hash values may be created that represent a range of zip codes. For instance a partial zip code may be used to generate a hash value representing a zip code range. For example the zip code range 98100 to 98109 may be represented by converting the first four digits of the zip code 98100 to a hash value. Thus 9810 may produce the hash value A27D2E0AAED33F954932F3953AF74A99C15A023E that may then be stored in a row of the shipping table. The hash value may then be associated with shippers that ship items to zip codes included in the zip code range. In order to expand or reduce the number of zip codes included in a hash value representing a zip code range the number of digits used to generate the hash value may be increased or decreased respectively. For example the first digit of the zip code 98109 converted to a hash value may represent a zip code range of 90000 to 99999 the first two digits of the zip code 98109 converted to a hash value may represent a zip code range of 98000 to 98999 and so on.

Because the shipping table accessed by the shipping schedule service may not contain actual zip codes the shipping schedule service may obtain a hash value substitute for the actual zip code from a customer information service . The shipping schedule service may provide to the customer information service an order ID that may be used by the customer information service to lookup a zip code that may be associated with the order ID. The customer information service may then use a part of the zip code or the entire zip code associated with the order ID to create a hash value. In one example the number of zip code digits used to create a hash value may be determined by the shipping schedule service that requests the hash value. In another example the number of zip code digits used to create a hash value may be based upon pre established rules shared between the different services. In either case a hash value may be created using a number of digits from the zip code associated with the order ID.

The hash value may then be sent to the shipping schedule service requesting the hash value and upon receiving the hash value the shipping schedule service may look up shipping information in a shipping table. As explained above a shipping table may be referenced by a hash value representing a range of zip codes as opposed to an actual zip code or zip code range. Upon locating a row within the shipping table that contains a reference matching the hash value provided by the customer information service the desired shipping information may be retrieved from the shipping table and returned to the service or module that requested the shipping information.

In one example the granularity of a hash value may be based upon an authorization level of a client e.g. billing service . The granularity of a hash value may refer to the number of characters of identifying information used to generate a hash value. Based on a client s authorization level a subset of characters of the identifying information may be determined. As an example trusted clients may be provided with a fine granular hash value i.e. every character of identifying information used to create the hash value and entrusted clients may receive a course granular hash value i.e. a small subset of identifying information characters used to create the hash value .

Returning to after receiving a hash value from the customer information service the billing service may send the hash value to a shipping service . The shipping service may then use the hash value to look up a shipping rate that may be affiliated with the hash value. The shipping service may then return the shipping rate to the billing service .

Because there may be no need for the zip code to be stored in the shipping table other than to associate shippers and rates to a specific zip code range the zip code range in the shipping table may be substituted with a hash value. When a service makes a request for shipping information the service may be provide with a hash value that may be used to look up shipping information from the shipping table . For example in a case where a service may request a shipper and a shipping rate for a zip code the shipping information associated with the zip code may cover a range of zip codes and as a result the shipping information may be stored in one row within the shipping table that covers a range of zip codes. Therefore the service requesting the shipping information may obtain a hash value that represents a range of zip codes and metadata that may indicate the number of digits used to generate the hash value.

In one example a zip code may be retrieved by a service that has permission to access personally identifiable information. The service may then use a hashing function to generate a hash value for N number of digits of the zip code . For example the service may select the first four digits of the zip code and generate a hash value from the first four digits of the zip code . The resulting hash value and metadata indicating that the first four digits were used to generate the hash value may then be used to identify shipping information in the shipping table by locating a zip code hash value that matches the hash value .

Upon identifying a row that contains a zip code hash value that matches the hash value shipping information contained within the row such as the shipper and the rate for example may be retrieved from the row and provided to the service requesting the shipping information. The personally identifiable information i.e. the zip code may therefore be hidden in the shipping table and yet the shipping table may provide shipping information associated with the personally identifiable information by way of a hash value. As will be appreciated the zip code examples in and are merely one example of personally identifiable information that may benefit from the technology. Naturally any category of sensitive information may be obscured using the methods described in this specification.

As an illustration a client may know an email address and may make a request to an order management system for orders associated with the email address. The order management system may not know the email address. Rather the order management system may maintain a customer orders table that contains a set of mapping values such as hash values representing the email address. The set of hash values may be associated with customer orders. In order to provide a partial lookup the set of hash values may be stored in the customer orders table in multiple rows with hashes that represent partial email addresses. For example in a case where order information associated with an email address e.g. darren example.com may be stored in a customer orders table the order information may be associated with multiple rows of hash values that represent a hashed part of the email address. Because a set of rows may be used the order information may be duplicated over the set of rows. For instance the customer orders table may contain four rows with a column containing a hash value reference representing part of the email address and a column containing the order ID such as the following 

A client may make an initial request for order information associated with the email address by providing a hash value for a number of characters of the email address . For example the first three characters e.g. dar of the email address e.g. darren example.com may be selected. Using a hash function such as a SHA 1 hash function a first hash value may be generated. The first hash value may be sent to an order management system that may return any records that may have a hash value reference matching the first hash value . Because many email addresses may begin with the first three characters selected the order management system may contain multiple records with the same hash value reference and therefore may return more than one record. For example if the first three characters selected are dar then the order management system may return four records with the same hash value reference where the first record may be associated with a darin the second record may be associated with a dara the third associated with a darren and the fourth associated with a darby .

Because the first search returned multiple records a second search may be performed by selecting additional characters from the email address . In one example a fourth character may be selected and again using a SHA 1 hash function a second hash value may be created. The second hash value may then be sent to the order management system. The order management system may search for one or more records having a hash value that matches the second hash value and return the one or more records to the client. For example the order management system may locate one record having a hash value that matches the second hash value and return the record to the client. Having received one record that matches the second hash value and the record contains the order information requested the client may terminate the search. In a case where the client may have received more than one record the client may continue to perform an iterative search by selecting additional characters of the email address to convert into a hash value until a single record may be returned. As will be appreciated any number of characters may be selected in any order to produce a partial lookup using a hash value. For instance sequences of characters may be chosen based upon a sequential e.g. the first five characters in sequential order non sequential e.g. the last ten characters in reverse order partial e.g. every other character or some other method of selection.

Another example of a partial lookup using a hash value may include a service that checks a customer s credit card award points using a hash value as opposed to the actual credit card number. As described in the previous example a service may select a number of characters of a customer s credit card number and convert the selected numbers to a hash value. The hash value may then be sent to a third party service that may query a credit card award table for award points that may be associated with the hash value.

As in block a hash value i.e. mapping value may be generated from the personally identifiable information or may be arbitrarily assigned. As in block the hash value may be associated to the affiliated data or in other words the hash value may be linked to the affiliated data so that the hash value references the affiliated data. After associating the hash value with the affiliated data as in block the personally identifiable information may be removed i.e. deleted from the data store. By removing the personally identifiable information from the data store and replacing the personally identifiable information with a hash value the personally identifiable information may be hidden from services that may access the data store.

As in block using the identifier the hashing service may identify the personally identifiable information. For example the hashing service may be granted access to a data store that may house personally identifiable information. The hashing service may query the data store by selecting personally identifiable information that may be associated with the identifier. For instance the hashing service may select a zip code from the data store where the zip code may be associated with a customer ID. The data store may then return the personally identifiable information queried to the hashing service.

As in block the hashing service may generate a hash value from the personally identifiable information. In one example a hash value may be generated using N number of characters from the personally identifiable information as determined by the parameter described above. In another example the number of characters of the personally identifiable information used to generate a hash value may be determined by an established rule used by a system that includes the hashing service. And in another example by default every character of the personally identifiable information may be used to generate a hash value. Once a hash value may have been generated for personally identifiable information as in block the hashing service may provide the hash value to the service or module that requested the personally identifiable information.

Having received a mapping value such as a hash value that may represent identifying information the client may request affiliated data associated with the identifying information by providing the hash value as a substitute to the actual identifying information as in block . In one example the hash value may be sent to an information server that may store customer information that may be referenced by hash values representing identifying information. The rows within a customer information data store may contain hash sets representing a range of the identifying information. For example a range of telephone numbers may be stored in a customer information data store as a set of hash values in multiple rows as opposed to storing the actual range of telephone numbers in a single row. As an illustration to represent a range of telephone numbers 867 5309 to 867 5312 as a set of SHA 1 hash values a customer data store may include the following rows 

As in block the method may identify data associated with the hash value by performing a lookup in a table for at least one row containing a hash value lookup that matches the hash value. Examples of data associated with identifiable information may include shipping rates associated with a zip code product order information that may be associated with a customer s email address health statistics associated with a patients ID and similar uses. In one example the method may query a lookup table that may be referenced by hash values representing personally identifiable information and contain a reference to data associated with the personally identifiable information. In another example the method may query a data store containing data associated with personally identifiable information that may be referenced by a hash value representing the personally identifiable information.

As in block the method may retrieve the data associated with the personally identifiable information from a data store by selecting the data from rows that may contain a hash value reference that matches the hash value representing the personally identifiable information and then as in block the method may provide the data to the service or module that may have requested the data.

The memory device may contain modules that are executable by the processor s and data for the modules. Located in the memory device are services and modules executable by the processor. For example a hashing service an information service and other modules may be located in the memory device . The modules may execute the functions described earlier. A data store may also be located in the memory device for storing data related to the modules and other applications along with an operating system that is executable by the processor s .

Other applications may also be stored in the memory device and may be executable by the processor s . Components or modules discussed in this description that may be implemented in the form of software using high programming level languages that are compiled interpreted or executed using a hybrid of the methods.

The computing device may also have access to I O input output devices that are usable by the computing devices. An example of an I O device is a display screen that is available to display output from the computing devices. Other known I O device may be used with the computing device as desired. Networking devices and similar communication devices may be included in the computing device. The networking devices may be wired or wireless networking devices that connect to the internet a LAN WAN or other computing network.

The components or modules that are shown as being stored in the memory device may be executed by the processor s . The term executable may mean a program file that is in a form that may be executed by a processor . For example a program in a higher level language may be compiled into machine code in a format that may be loaded into a random access portion of the memory device and executed by the processor or source code may be loaded by another executable program and interpreted to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by a processor. The executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory device . For example the memory device may be random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory a solid state drive memory card a hard drive optical disk floppy disk magnetic tape or any other memory components.

The processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memory units that operate in parallel to the processing circuits. This may provide parallel processing channels for the processes and data in the system. The local interface may be used as a network to facilitate communication between any of the multiple processors and multiple memories. The local interface may use additional systems designed for coordinating communication such as load balancing bulk data transfer and similar systems.

While the flowcharts presented for this technology may imply a specific order of execution the order of execution may differ from what is illustrated. For example the order of two more blocks may be rearranged relative to the order shown. Further two or more blocks shown in succession may be executed in parallel or with partial parallelization. In some configurations one or more blocks shown in the flow chart may be omitted or skipped. Any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement troubleshooting or for similar reasons.

Some of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module when joined logically together.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

The technology described here may also be stored on a computer readable storage medium that includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented with any technology for the storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer readable storage media include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tapes magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other computer storage medium which may be used to store the desired information and described technology.

The devices described herein may also contain communication connections or networking apparatus and networking connections that allow the devices to communicate with other devices. Communication connections are an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. A modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes communication media.

Reference was made to the examples illustrated in the drawings and specific language was used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the technology is thereby intended. Alterations and further modifications of the features illustrated herein and additional applications of the examples as illustrated herein are to be considered within the scope of the description.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more examples. In the preceding description numerous specific details were provided such as examples of various configurations to provide a thorough understanding of examples of the described technology. It will be recognized however that the technology may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components devices etc. In other instances well known structures or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the technology.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or operations it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features and operations described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the described technology.

Reference was made to the examples illustrated in the drawings and specific language was used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the technology is thereby intended. Alterations and further modifications of the features illustrated herein and additional applications of the examples as illustrated herein are to be considered within the scope of the description.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more examples. In the preceding description numerous specific details were provided such as examples of various configurations to provide a thorough understanding of examples of the described technology. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the technology may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components devices etc. In other instances well known structures or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the technology.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or operations it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features and operations described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the described technology.

