---

title: Apparatus, method, and computer program product for synchronizing interactive content with multimedia
abstract: An apparatus, method, and computer program product are disclosed for synchronizing interactive content with multimedia. A media module is configured to display a multimedia element in a media player capable of multimedia playback. A content module is configured to display one or more interactive content elements associated with the multimedia element. A synchronization module is configured to synchronize the presentation of the one or more interactive content elements with playback of the multimedia element. An input detection module is configured to detect user input in response to a user interacting with the one or more interactive content elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09535577&OS=09535577&RS=09535577
owner: 
number: 09535577
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130716
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 672 110 entitled APPARATUS METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR SYNCHRONIZING INTERACTIVE CONTENT WITH MULTIMEDIA and filed on Jul. 16 2012 for Gary Spirer which is incorporated herein by reference. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 791 191 entitled APPARATUS METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR SYNCHRONIZING INTERACTIVE CONTENT WITH MULTIMEDIA and filed on Mar. 15 2013 for Gary Spirer which is also incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to displaying multimedia content and more particularly relates to synchronizing interactive content with multimedia playback.

In general multimedia may include static images motion pictures sound recordings etc. which may be consumed on an electronic device such as a computer smart phone etc. Businesses and organizations may take advantage of different multimedia content to advertise their products market to target groups etc. In particular businesses may share present multimedia using a variety of online distribution methods such as social networks email text messages etc. Traditional multimedia content however usually does not allow the user to interact with the content.

It may be desirable to allow multimedia consumers to interact with the multimedia content which may have advantages for both the consumer and the content creator. A content creator may want to gain feedback about products gain statistical data about a marketing campaign etc. from their consumers. Consumers may want a more immersive multimedia experience and may also want to provide feedback on products advertising etc. that they consume.

From the foregoing discussion it should be apparent that a need exists for an apparatus method and computer program product to synchronize interactive content with multimedia. Beneficially such an apparatus method and computer program product would allow a content creator to display interactive content during multimedia playback.

The present disclosure has been developed in response to the present state of the art and in particular in response to the problems and needs in the art that have not yet been fully solved by currently available multimedia display methods. Accordingly the present disclosure has been developed to provide an apparatus method and computer program product for synchronizing interactive content with multimedia that overcome many or all of the above discussed shortcomings in the art.

In one embodiment an apparatus is disclosed that includes a media module configured to display a multimedia element in a media player capable of multimedia playback. In another embodiment a content module is configured to display one or more interactive content elements associated with the multimedia element. In certain embodiments a synchronization module is configured to synchronize the presentation of the one or more interactive content elements with playback of the multimedia element. In one embodiment an input detection module is configured to detect user input in response to a user interacting with the one or more interactive content elements.

In a further embodiment the apparatus includes a layout module is configured to position the one or more interactive content elements and the multimedia element on a display such that the one or more interactive content elements are positioned one or more of proximate and overlaid relative to the media player. In another embodiment the input detection module includes a trigger module configured to perform an action in response to user input detected by the input detection module. In a further embodiment the trigger module performs an action in response to receiving input from one or more of an external and internal cue.

In one embodiment a scheduling module is configured to play the multimedia element and the one or more synchronized interactive content elements at a future date and time. In another embodiment an analysis module is configured to analyze and store data collected from the input detected by the input detection module. In certain embodiments the analysis module creates customized feedback reports the feedback reports comprising one or more of recommendations evaluations assessments and explanations.

In one embodiment a metrics module is configured to organize the data collected from the analysis module and create one or more metrics based on the collected data. In another embodiment an integration module is configured to integrate the data collected by the analysis module with external applications. In certain embodiments the external applications include one or more of e commerce systems customer relationship management systems email systems and social media platforms.

The apparatus in some embodiments includes a rewards module configured to provide a reward in response to actions detected by the input detection module. The reward in one embodiment includes one or more of loyalty points incentives discounts coupons badges achievements bargains promotions and offers. In another embodiment the one or more interactive content elements displayed by the content module includes one or more of survey questions polls quizzes hyperlinked text hotspots and buttons that are synchronized to the multimedia element displayed by the media module.

In another embodiment the apparatus includes an administration module configured to create one or more interactive content elements synchronized with a multimedia element. The administration module in another embodiment includes a loading module configured to load and divide a multimedia element into one or more segments. In one embodiment an editing module configured to create one or more interactive content elements associated with the multimedia element. In certain embodiments a timing module is configured to synchronize the presentation of one or more interactive content elements with the one or more segments of the multimedia element. In one embodiment the position and duration of the one or more interactive content elements in the multimedia element is set on a timeline.

In one embodiment the editing module links one or more different multimedia elements to one or more possible responses to the one or more interactive content elements such that a different multimedia element is displayed based on the response. In another embodiment the apparatus includes a distribution module configured to distribute the one or more interactive content elements synchronized with the multimedia element.

A method is disclosed that in one embodiment includes displaying a multimedia element in a media player capable of multimedia playback on a display. The method in another embodiment includes displaying one or more interactive content elements associated with the multimedia element on a display. In another embodiment the method includes synchronizing presentation of the one or more interactive content elements with playback of the multimedia element. In a further embodiment the method includes detecting user input in response to a user interacting with the one or more interactive content elements.

In one embodiment detecting user input in response to the user interacting with the one or more interactive content elements further comprises triggering an action. In another embodiment the method includes collecting metrics in real time in response to a user interacting with the one or more interactive content elements. In a further embodiment the one or more displayed interactive content elements comprises one or more of surveys quizzes polls hyperlinked text hotspots and buttons.

In one embodiment the method includes loading a multimedia element in a media player capable of multimedia playback. In another embodiment the method includes dividing the multimedia element into one or more media segments. In a further embodiment the method includes creating one or more interactive content elements associated with the multimedia element. The method in another embodiment includes synchronizing the presentation of one or more interactive content elements with the one or more media segments using a timeline interface.

A computer program product is disclosed that includes a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith. In one embodiment the computer readable program code is configured to display a multimedia element in a media player capable of multimedia playback. In another embodiment the computer readable program code is configured to display one or more interactive content elements associated with the multimedia element. The computer readable program code in another embodiment is configured to synchronize the presentation of the one or more interactive content elements with playback of the multimedia element. In one embodiment the computer readable program code is configured to receive user input in response to a user interacting with the one or more interactive content elements.

References throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language do not imply that all of the features and advantages may be realized in any single embodiment. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic is included in at least one embodiment. Thus discussion of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments.

These features and advantages of the embodiments will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of embodiments as set forth hereinafter. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method and or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of computer readable program code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of computer readable program code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. Where a module or portions of a module are implemented in software the computer readable program code may be stored and or propagated on in one or more computer readable medium s .

The computer readable medium may be a tangible computer readable storage medium storing the computer readable program code. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared holographic micromechanical or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

More specific examples of the computer readable storage medium may include but are not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device a holographic storage medium a micromechanical storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain and or store computer readable program code for use by and or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer readable medium may also be a computer readable signal medium. A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electrical electro magnetic magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport computer readable program code for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Computer readable program code embodied on a computer readable signal medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireline optical fiber Radio Frequency RF or the like or any suitable combination of the foregoing

In one embodiment the computer readable medium may comprise a combination of one or more computer readable storage mediums and one or more computer readable signal mediums. For example computer readable program code may be both propagated as an electro magnetic signal through a fiber optic cable for execution by a processor and stored on RAM storage device for execution by the processor.

Computer readable program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C PHP or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment but mean one or more but not all embodiments unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise. An enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive and or mutually inclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms a an and the also refer to one or more unless expressly specified otherwise.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of an embodiment.

Aspects of the embodiments are described below with reference to schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams of methods apparatuses systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program code. The computer readable program code may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer sequencer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams block or blocks.

The computer readable program code may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams block or blocks.

The computer readable program code may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the program code which executed on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of apparatuses systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions of the program code for implementing the specified logical function s .

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more blocks or portions thereof of the illustrated Figures.

Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flowchart and or block diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding embodiments. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the depicted embodiment. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted embodiment. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer readable program code.

The server in one embodiment may include memory storing computer readable programs and may include a processor that executes the computer readable programs as is well known to those skilled in the art. The computer readable programs may be tangibly stored in storage in communication with the server. The server may host store and or provide a multimedia element synchronized with one or more interactive content elements for access and or download over the network by the plurality of clients .

The network may comprise a global communications network such as the internet a Local Area Network LAN multiple LANs communicating over the internet a wide area network WAN a cellular network or any other similar communications network. The network may include hardware such as routers switches cabling and other communication hardware. Each client may be embodied as a desktop computer a portable computer a server a mainframe computer a handheld computing device a touch device a personal desktop assistant PDA a tablet computer an eBook reader a mobile phone a smart phone a smart TV a kiosk a head mounted display smart eyeglasses smart contact lenses and the like.

Each client may communicate with the server through the network . In one embodiment a client communicates with the server by way of a program executing on the client such as an internet browser or an application configured to access and or download multimedia content from the server as is known in the art. In one embodiment the server may distribute one or more interactive content elements synchronized with a multimedia element such as video graphics sound and text which may be accessible to the client devices over the network . In certain embodiments the program on the client device allows a user to interact with the multimedia element and or the one or more interactive content elements by using an input device. The input device may include a mouse stylus joystick controller and the like. One of skill in the art will recognize other ways for a user to interact with a client device .

The media module in one embodiment displays one or more multimedia elements. As used herein multimedia may be media content that uses a combination of different content forms such as text audio images graphics video slideshows animations documents and the like. The one or more multimedia elements in some embodiments may include but is not limited to pre recorded and or live streaming media timed or untimed media or the like. In other embodiments the one or more multimedia elements may include presentations created by a presentation program such as Microsoft PowerPoint Apple s Keynote and the like.

The media module may present the multimedia content by visually displaying the content on an electronic display of a client device . In certain embodiments the content is presented using a media player capable of multimedia playback as illustrated in . The media player may be integrated into a client program such as an internet browser or may be a standalone application such as Windows Media Player or QuickTime.

Referring now to the media module may access a remote server through the network to download a multimedia element for playback in the media player . Alternatively the media module in some embodiments may access multimedia elements stored on a local computer. For example the media module may reside on a mobile device that may have one or more multimedia elements stored on the device. The media module in another embodiment may access live streaming media from the internet a television provider a radio provider and or the like for playback in the media player .

The content module in one embodiment presents one or more interactive content elements associated with the multimedia element displayed by the media module . The one or more interactive content elements may include but is not limited to text content audible content and or visual content. Text content may include text audible content may include spoken words music sound effects and or the like and visual content may include images video graphics animations slideshows presentations and or the like.

The content module in one embodiment displays visual content by presenting the one or more interactive content elements on an electronic display. A user may interact with the one or more interactive content elements displayed by the content module through an input device such as a mouse stylus joystick controller and or the like. For example a user may view interactive content presented on the display of a touch screen device and use a finger and or stylus to interact with the content.

The one or more interactive content elements displayed by the content module in one embodiment may include hyperlinked text graphics images buttons and or the like. In other embodiments the one or more interactive content elements may include but is not limited to survey questions polls quizzes games assessments evaluations hot spots and or the like. As used herein hot spots may include interactive locations overlaying a multimedia element which allow user interaction. In another embodiment an interactive content element may include a custom HTML overlay which presents interactive objects for a user to interact with by for example clicking with a mouse hovering over with a mouse selecting with a finger and or the like. The interactive objects within the custom HTML overlay may link to external locations such as websites and or display different interactive content elements. In further embodiments the one or more interactive content elements displayed by the content module may overlay the multimedia presented in the media player by the media module . In certain embodiments the one or more interactive content elements may be displayed pre roll and or post roll. For example a user watching an online video on YouTube may be presented with one or more survey questions before the video starts and or after the video is completed.

In yet another embodiment the media module may embed the media player in a client application such as an internet browser by using an embed link encoded in a programming language such as HTML PHP and or the like. In one embodiment the iframe HTML tag may be removed from the embed code to allow one or more interactive content elements to be integrated into the media player . By removing the iframe HTML tag from the embed code the one or more interactive content elements may be discoverable by a web crawler such as Google Yahoo Bing and or the like which allows the content to be indexed and ranked for search engine optimization SEO .

The synchronization module synchronizes the presentation of the one or more interactive content elements displayed by the content module with a multimedia element displayed by the media module . In one embodiment as the multimedia element is playing in a media player the synchronization module may update the one or more interactive content elements in response to the segment of the multimedia element being presented.

For example as shown in the embodiment depicted in a video may be configured to present a user with a question every ten seconds during playback of the video in the media player . In this example the synchronization module may pause the media player present the user with a question that has been prepared beforehand and wait until the user has answered the question to continue playing the video. In other embodiments the synchronization module may update other areas of the display that present one or more interactive content elements in response to the current position of the multimedia element being presented.

In a further example a live streaming television program may be playing in the media player . Intermittently during the live streaming program commercial advertisements may be shown that present to the viewer products services information and or the like. The commercial advertisements as part of the live streaming television program may be synchronized with one or more interactive content elements such as poll questions survey questions trivia questions quiz questions and or the like which a viewer can interact with in real time while watching the commercial advertisements. In one embodiment a viewer watching the live streaming television program on a television set may interact with the one or more interactive content elements by using an internet connected set top box such as Google TV Apple TV and the like. In another embodiment the live streaming program with its one or more synchronized interactive content elements may be viewed and interacted with in real time on an internet connected client device such as a smart TV computer mobile device and or the like and or saved for offline viewing on a digital video recorder DVR computer mobile device and or the like.

In one embodiment a mobile device and or smart phone such as an iPhone or Android based phone may host the media module and the content module which are configured to effectively utilize the limited viewing area of the mobile device screen. For example in one embodiment a video may be presented on the mobile device by the media module . The video may be paused by the content module when an interactive content element e.g. a survey question is presented to the user. In some embodiments the video may be hidden by the media module in order to dedicate the viewing area to the content module . In another embodiment the content module may overlay interactive content elements over the video. The video may reappear in some embodiments and continue playback after the user has interacted with the interactive content.

Referring back to in another embodiment the synchronization module may employ question logic where the synchronization module updates the one or more interactive content elements and or the multimedia element based on user input. For example referring again to the embodiment depicted in survey questions may be synchronized with a video playing in the media player . The synchronization module may update the video playing in the media player with a different video in response to a user s answer to a survey question . Moreover a user s answer to the questions may determine how the one or more interactive content elements and or the multimedia element are updated. In this manner a content creator may use the synchronization module to customize the interactive and or multimedia content in real time by chaining together various content elements such as videos graphics text and the like in response to user input.

In one embodiment the administration module described below with reference to allows a content creator to upload one or more multimedia elements and link them together based on a user s feedback provided to the interactive content elements. For example a content creator may upload a series of videos and link different videos to different answer choices for a multiple choice survey question. The user s responses will determine which of the uploaded videos will be displayed. Similarly in other embodiments the content creator may link different interactive content elements to different responses provided by the user. In this way the content creator may design a complex marketing scheme based on the user s responses which would provide a different experience for each user.

In another embodiment a content creator may design a response driven decision making project such as for an advertising campaign a real estate project a business deal or the like which would include one or more interactive multimedia content elements. For example a user may be unsure about the direction to go regarding an advertising campaign for an upcoming product. To help the user solve this problem the user is presented with a response driven decision making project that initially presents the user with one or more general advertising options. In one embodiment a user may be presented with a sample video and asked a series of questions regarding items ideas expressions people music and or the like displayed in the video in order to get a sense of what the user likes and the direction the user wants to go with the advertising campaign. Alternatively the questions may be designed to determine where to advertise i.e. social networks websites television radio and the like the market to target with the advertising when to advertise or the like. In response to the user s responses to the initial questions a subsequent video may be displayed with more specific questions and so on. The response driven decision making project incorporates question logic to determine based on the user s answers what interactive multimedia content to display next.

Alternatively for example a real estate company may have a number of videos that are used for their advertising campaigns. A real estate broker may be presented with one or more questions to determine the type of client the broker is targeting i.e. questions regarding age marital status housing preferences or the like. Based on the broker s answers one or more possible advertising campaigns may be displayed that the broker can choose from. In other embodiments another series of questions may be presented to the broker to help get more specific information from the broker. The broker may additionally select various customized options for the advertising campaign such as music video clips taglines or the like which are presented to the broker based on the broker s responses. The broker may then choose where to distribute the selected advertising campaign such as on a website social network mobile network or the like. Moreover the broker may choose to share the advertising campaign with just a single client a group of clients or an entire community.

In a similar example a CEO may be struggling with a tough business decision such as a possible merger long term investment options expansion options or the like. The CEO may be presented with an initial questionnaire which would create a baseline and drive the next set of questions based on the CEO s responses. The questionnaire may incorporate multimedia elements such as photographs audio tracks videos or the like. Subsequent questionnaires may include more specific questions based on the CEO s responses to the previous set of questions. The questions may drill down into specific information regarding the CEO s company such as costs expenses forecasts revenues profits assets and or the like in order to provide more specific results and or options to help the CEO make an informed decision.

Referring now to the input detection module in one embodiment detects input from a user interacting with one or more of the interactive content elements as described above. The input device may include a mouse a stylus and the like. One of skill in the art will recognize other ways for a user to interact with a client computing device. In other embodiments the input detection module includes a trigger module that performs an action in response to input detected by the input detection module .

The trigger module may perform an action in response to a user interacting with an interactive content element. The action in certain embodiments may include but is not limited to displaying a website and or updating the one or more interactive content elements associated with the multimedia element such as displaying questions updating advertisements updating informative text and the like. For example in one embodiment the trigger module may open a website when a user interacts with hyperlinked text. Other triggers may include but are not limited to motions gestures finger prints eye movements hand movements accelerometer movements gyroscopic movements color vision proximity sensors binocular vision acoustics voice commands images or the like. In other embodiments the trigger module may respond to motions gestures and or voice commands by live and or inanimate objects such as computers robotic devices or the like. Other triggers may include external signs and or symbols which may be either physical or digital such as a sign on TV or in a video.

In another embodiment interactive content presented on a display such as questions advertisements and the like may be updated by the trigger module in response to a user interacting with an interactive content element. For example in one embodiment a user may click on an answer to a survey question overlaying a video playing in a media player as depicted in . The trigger module in response to the user s answer to the survey question may update the one or more interactive content elements associated with the survey question.

In another example embodiment synchronized interactive content may overlay the video in the form of a video hot spot which a user may click on to gain more information about the object in the video . The trigger module may perform an action associated with the hot spot such as updating the one or more interactive content elements and or opening a website associated with the object. In other embodiments a user s eye movements may be tracked as he views the multimedia content which may trigger customized interactive content to be displayed in response to where the user is looking. For example a user may be viewing a music video and as he looks at different objects within the video such as clothing automobiles musical instruments and the like the trigger module may display interactive content associated with those objects. In some embodiments similar to tracking eye movements speech and or gesture inputs may be processed by the trigger module to perform an associated action.

Referring back to in yet another embodiment the trigger module may perform an action in response to an external and or internal cue. An external cue may include signals transmitted from an object that may be used as an interaction device to trigger an action by the trigger module . For example a user may be wearing a pair of running shoes which have an embedded transmitter configured to trigger an action by the trigger module when connected to the embodied apparatus. The transmitter within the user s shoes may communicate specific information about the shoes to the trigger module as it relates to the multimedia content being viewed by the user. If a user is viewing a running video for example the transmitter may communicate to the system the user s shoe size the type of shoe how long the user has been wearing the shoes and the like. In this manner the system may generate real time interactive content such as survey questions polls advertisements and the like customized to the user s preferences and lifestyle.

In another embodiment a geolocation system such as a global positioning system GPS system may also trigger an action by the trigger module . The trigger module may collect location information from a user in order to generate one or more custom interactive content elements based on the user s location. For example as a user walks into a retail store he may be presented on his mobile device with a video of a store employee welcoming him into the store. The video may present the user with real time interactive questions regarding the purpose of the user s visit in order to help him find products in the store. In another embodiment a user may have interactive multimedia delivered to their smart device while they are waiting in line such as at a grocery store airport hotel or the like which may be determined by a GPS system. In other embodiments interactive multimedia content is delivered to a user s smart device while they are on hold during a telephone call.

In some embodiments the trigger module located on a server may receive the user s location in the store from a GPS system. The trigger module may then query a database for multimedia and interactive content based on the user s location in the store and send this information back to the user through the network . The multimedia content may be a video that recommends products and or presents product reviews. Alternatively the user may be presented with customized rewards while in the store such as offers and promotions for performing reward based actions in the store as described below. In other embodiments the user s location may be dynamically tracked as the user moves through the store triggering interactive content such as coupons product reviews and the like based on the user s location.

In another embodiment the trigger module may receive an electronic message from a user to trigger an action. The electronic message may include a text message an email message a digital voice message or the like. In one example as illustrated in a store may post an advertisement that says Text COUPON to 55555 to get 15 off of your purchase. In response to the user texting the word COUPON to the specified number on their mobile smart device the trigger module sends a reply message . The reply message may include interactive multimedia content such as a video quiz survey game or the like. In another embodiment the reply message includes a link to the interactive multimedia content. In order to receive the discount the user would have to playback the multimedia content and perform some action associated with the interactive content elements such as answer survey questions fill out a lead capture form play a game or the like. The user would then be sent a coupon via an electronic message to use in the store.

In another embodiment the trigger module may trigger an action in response to a user scanning a quick response QR code with a device capable of reading QR codes such as a smart phone or tablet as illustrated in . In yet another embodiment the trigger module may trigger an action in response to a near field communication NFC request. One of skill in the art will recognize other technologies in light of the present subject matter that act as a bridge between static marketing content and an electronic device. For example a user may scan a QR code printed on an advertisement promoting a discount at a retail store a hotel a sporting event an airport or the like. In response to scanning the QR code the trigger module sends an interactive multimedia element such as a video survey via a text message and or email message to the smart device . The user may then receive a promotional incentive in response to playing the multimedia content and providing one or more responses to the one or more interactive content elements.

Referring to in one embodiment the trigger module may update the one or more interactive content elements in response to audible words associated with a multimedia element. For example a user may be presented with a video displaying an automobile advertisement. The advertisement may include a narrator that audibly describes the various features of the automobile while images or videos of the features are displayed. The trigger module may update the one or more interactive content elements in response to cues from the narrator s spoken words. Thus as the narrator describes the interior options on different models for example the trigger module may update the one or more interactive content elements to display text and or images describing the different interior options in response to an audible cue such as the word interior as spoken by the narrator.

In yet another embodiment the trigger module may present multimedia and or interactive content elements on a device in response to a product being purchased with said device. For example mobile devices such as smart phones may be used to purchase items at a point of sale by scanning a code and or device using near field communication between devices and or the like which may debit a user s account or apply the balance to a credit card. The trigger module in response to a product purchased in this manner may present to the user multimedia and or interactive content such as survey questions rewards and or the like e.g. a thank you video from the store accompanied with coupons which may be applied to future visits . In another example a user may be watching a commercial advertisement on a smart TV. The smart TV may allow the user to use a device such as a smart phone or tablet computer to communicate with the TV to purchase the product. Again in response to the purchase the trigger module may present multimedia with synchronized interactive content to the client device used to purchase the product. In other embodiments a user may be presented with related products and or services from a partner vender in response to a purchase. The affiliated partner may then be provided with data regarding the purchase such as referral information from the consumer by the trigger module .

In some embodiments the apparatus may include an administration module . The administration module includes a loading module an editing module a timing module a layout module a distribution module and a forms module . The apparatus as depicted may be implemented in various industries including but not limited to government medical health care commercial retail and gaming. The embodied apparatus may also be integrated into several systems such as training e learning assessment catalogue presentation entertainment point of sale e commerce and or advertising. In other embodiments the apparatus may be located on various systems in a myriad of industries including but not limited to financial services venture funding crowd funding health care emergency services and or the like. In other embodiments the apparatus may be integrated into chat services such as instant messenger Skype AIM and or the like.

Moreover while the depicted embodiment includes the above listed modules in certain embodiments the apparatus may include a subset of the depicted modules alone and or in various combinations.

In one embodiment the layout module positions the multimedia element displayed by the media module and the one or more interactive content elements displayed by the content module on a display. In certain embodiments the one or more interactive content elements displayed by the content module may be displayed proximate the multimedia element displayed by the media module which may be above below left and or right in relation to the position of the multimedia element. In another embodiment the layout module may overlay the one or more interactive content elements over the multimedia element being displayed by the media module . The layout module in other embodiments may display the one or more interactive content elements displayed by the content module both proximate and overlaying the multimedia element displayed by the media module .

The analysis module collects data in response to user input detected by the input detection module . The data collected by the analysis module may be stored in a database on a local server or remotely in a cloud computing environment such as Amazon s Simple Storage Service S . The analysis module in one embodiment may use the collected data to provide the user with real time customized analysis evaluations recommendations reports and the like in response to the user s interaction with the one or more interactive content elements. Various statistical analyses may be performed on the data including cross tabulations optimization analyses pattern analyses tracking analyses business intelligence analyses and or the like. In certain embodiments where the one or more interactive content elements include questions the analysis performed by the analysis module may be performed on a per question basis and or for the entire question set.

For example in one embodiment a user may view a training and or assessment video displayed by the media module with associated interactive questions displayed by the content module . The interactive questions may be synchronized with the video by the synchronization module so that the questions are shown at predetermined segments of the video. At the end of the video the user may be presented with an overall score and or an evaluation report created by the analysis module describing the performance for each question. In some embodiments the analysis module may produce certifications such that a user may become certified in a certain subject earn badges and or achievements earn points and or the like if the user answers a predetermined number of questions correctly during playback of the training and or assessment video.

In another example a user may purchase an online training course that includes multimedia content with synchronized interactive content. The user would be given a username and password which would allow access to a dedicated membership site containing their training certification videos quizzes surveys and or the like. The user would view the training videos and answer the assessment questions as they are presented before during and or after the video. Their answer history progress and contact information would be tracked and analyzed by the analysis module to determine when the user achieved a successful pass rate and when to move the user on to more difficult certification trainings.

A similar example would be in a commercial setting where a user is presented with a video and is asked to compare products rank products provide reviews or the like regarding products displayed in the video. At the end of the video in one embodiment the user may be given a list of recommendations created by the analysis module in response to the user s answers to the questions presented during the video. In certain embodiments the analysis module may display different forms of multimedia and or interactive content within the generated reports and recommendations such as video audio text and the like.

In another embodiment the analysis module assigns cookies to the user based on their responses to the interactive content elements such as their answers to survey questions or product reviews. Third party websites and applications may use the cookies to provide targeted advertising marketing promotions offers discounts and the like to the user based on their responses. For example based on a user s positive product review of a mountain bike found in a cookie assigned to the user Google would provide advertising directed toward mountain bikes and accessories related to the product that received the positive review in their search results when the user performed a Google search.

In other embodiments the analysis module processes pre and post purchase data including feedback provided by the user and purchasing behavior. In one embodiment purchase data may be accessed by scanning a QR code printed on a receipt. The QR code in some embodiments may contain metadata associated with the recent purchase such as a receipt identifier store identifier the UPC codes of the items purchased or the like. Scanning the QR code located on the receipt in other embodiments may deliver interactive multimedia content to the user s device such as a website text message or the like that is specific to the store where the receipt was printed. The analysis module in one embodiment may use the receipt metadata to track the purchasing behavior of the user and analyze the collected data in addition to the data generated by the user s responses to the interactive content such as a survey quiz game or the like. The user in other embodiments may have a tag associated with their membership account such that the user s tag may be sent to external systems associated with the membership site. For example when a user successfully completes a training module the user s tag may be forwarded to automated marketing sites customer relationship management systems and or similar systems to provide personalized content for the user.

In other embodiments the analysis module provides artificial intelligence learning capabilities. In one embodiment the analysis module learns by analyzing responses to an interactive multimedia provided by a user. The analysis module may then intelligently respond to the user with more personalized interactive multimedia content such as targeted video surveys quizzes polls assessments games product suggestions and the like. Further based on an analysis of the provided responses more personalized rewards incentives offers promotions or the like may be presented to a user in response to the user completing a survey quiz poll or the like. In one embodiment the analysis module continually refines and adjusts the content of the responses provided to a user based on the user s responses to the interactive content.

The analysis module in some embodiments may include a metrics module . The metrics module may further analyze the data collected by the analysis module to generate one or more multimedia metrics audience metrics brand metrics and the like. Multimedia metrics may include the number of views viewed minutes completion rates social shares click through rates ad clicks and the like. Audience metrics may include a number of demographic statistics such as the number of unique viewers age gender marital status and the like. Brand metrics may include statistics associated with products such as brand awareness favorability purchase intent recall and the like. In other embodiments psychographic metrics may be collected including but not limited to personality attitudes values interests lifestyles and the like. In certain embodiments an interactive content element may include a sentiment meter which may be configured to gauge a user s feelings and or emotions at certain points during playback of a multimedia element as would be recognized by one skilled in the art. For example a sentiment meter may be used to collect emotional data from a user regarding products in a video. Alternatively a sentiment meter may be used to assess how an audience feels at different points during a business pitch. This would provide a content creator with real time behavioral and emotional feedback and or metrics.

In another embodiment the metrics module may provide a dashboard interface summarizing the various statistics and metrics collected. The interface may include pie charts bar charts line graphs matrixes tables and the like that graphically depict one or more metrics generated by the metrics module . In one embodiment the metrics module may include an export function that exports the collected metrics or a subset of the collected metrics to different file formats such as a comma separated values file CSV a portable document format file PDF and the like to be used by other applications such as a spreadsheet program a statistical package program and the like. One of skill in the art will recognize various file formats which may be used for exporting data.

In one embodiment the apparatus may include an integration module . The integration module integrates the data collected and stored by the analysis module with external applications such as customer relationship management CRM systems e commerce systems statistical software packages email systems marketing systems and the like. In another embodiment the integration module tags filters and or segments in real time collected data that may be pushed to external systems. For example an external CRM system may have an automated marketing response function that will automatically send a text message email and or the like based on a tag. The tag may be a customizable keyword or term associated with a piece of information. The CRM system may be integrated into the embodied system by the integration module which may send the CRM system data collected from the embodied system with its associated tags. The CRM system upon receiving the data and its associated tags may trigger one or more automated marketing responses. In another example upon receipt of a user s tag a user s membership site may be customized with new content and or features.

In a further example a content creator may want to send a thank you email to any person who watches a video. The integration module may tag the user based on metrics collected by the metrics module and an external email system may receive the data and or tag in real time. The email system based on the data and tag received can customize the email message recommend products provide product promotions and or the like to send to the user. Further in some embodiments the external system may include a short message service SMS system an e commerce system and or other external systems that include automated marketing response functions.

Some embodiments of the apparatus may also include a rewards module . The rewards module may provide loyalty points incentives discounts coupons badges achievements bargains promotions offers and the like for a user s participation in a survey poll quiz game assessment training and the like. The rewards module may customize the rewards offered in response to a user s interaction with the one or more interactive content elements. For example in one embodiment a retailer may present to a user a video with synchronized interactive survey questions regarding the products in the video. As a user answers the questions the analysis module may use the answers as a reference to find products in a product database in order to create customized product recommendations in real time.

Alternatively the rewards module using the information gathered from the analysis module may generate customized product promotions and or coupons. The rewards module in various embodiments may use the demographic and or psychographic metrics collected by the metrics module to offer a user customized rewards based on variables such as a user s interests activities opinions age gender and the like. The customized rewards may include but are not limited to loyalty points frequent flyer points coupons gift certificates promotions and the like based.

In other embodiments the rewards module may provide rewards for a user s participation in rewards based actions such as providing an email address buying a product repeating a purchase reviewing products recommending products advertising products and the like. For example a user in a retail store may be provided with coupons and or promotions based on the user s location in the store. A GPS system may be used to determine the user s location relative to products displayed in the store. As a user approaches rewards eligible products the rewards module may present to the user on a client device such as a mobile device smart phone and the like one or more rewards for performing an action associated with the product such as purchasing the product writing a review advertising the product and the like.

In yet another embodiment a schedule module may be provided to schedule playback of the one or more interactive content elements synchronized with the multimedia element. In one embodiment for example an entrepreneur may be trying to collect investment capital using crowd funding. The entrepreneur creates a webinar video with interactive content that may be available online for viewing. A potential investor may schedule a more convenient time to watch the video in return for registering their name phone email address and the like with the website.

The schedule module in one embodiment also allows the potential investor to set an alert telling the system to remind him about the webinar before the scheduled time. In other embodiments the schedule module may also allow the user to invite others to the webinar through their social media site e.g. Facebook friends email invitations or the like. The webinar video may be synchronized with the same types of interactive content discussed above which provides more interactivity and data collection than would be provided with traditional webinar systems. In this manner a user is able to reach a large number of people with their pitch while also gaining valuable real time feedback through the user s interaction with the synchronized interactive content.

Certain embodiments of the apparatus may also include an administration module . The administration module provides an interface that allows a content creator to load and segment a multimedia element edit one or more interactive content elements and synchronize the one or more interactive content elements with the one or more segments of the multimedia element. The administration module provides a streamlined content creation interface such that a content creator does not have to switch between windows interfaces and the like in order to load edit and synchronize the one or more interactive content elements with the multimedia element. In one embodiment the administration module creates an account associated with a content creator such that a content creator may need to provide credentials such as a username and or password to login to their account. The administration module in other embodiments associates preferences uploaded content created content or the like with the content creator s account.

In some embodiments the administration module is located on a mobile device such as a smart phone and is formatted to be easily used on the mobile device. Thus any of the modules associated with the administration module such as the loading module editing module layout module distribution module and or the like. In some embodiments the content creator using the administration module has the ability to create multimedia content on a mobile device such as capturing video on a smart phone adding interactive content to the multimedia content e.g. surveys polls quizzes or the like syncing the interacting content to the multimedia content and distributing the multimedia and interactive content e.g. by sending a hyperlink sharing on a social network sending an email sending an SMS or the like . In this manner a content creator may easily create and share interactive multimedia content from almost anywhere using a mobile device.

In one embodiment on a mobile device as depicted in the administration module presents a menu of content creation options to the content creator. The content creator may select e.g. by touching with a finger to upload a video and or image or capture a video and or image using a multimedia loading interface presented by the loading module . The content creator may also create interactive content such as creating one or more questions using a question creation interface creating one or more answers associated with the questions using an answer creation interface and syncing the interactive content with the multimedia content using a syncing interface . A distribution module described below may distribute the interactive multimedia content to one or more destinations selected by the content creator on a distribution interface such as one or more social networks text message recipients email recipients or the like. In another embodiment the content creator may view reports on a reporting interface and or statistics on an analytics interface .

The loading module loads a multimedia element such as a video presentation slideshow audio file and the like into a media player capable of multimedia playback. In one embodiment the multimedia element may be uploaded to a server where the administration module is located. Alternatively the loading module may load a multimedia element hosted on a media website such as YouTube or on a cloud server such as Amazon s S3 service. The loading module in some embodiments divides the multimedia element into one or more media segments.

In one embodiment the loading module loads multiple multimedia elements that may be used for example for video branching or question logic as described above. Video branching as used herein allows the content creator to string together multiple video clips based on a user s responses. For example the content creator may ask a question with three possible responses each associated with a different video clip based on the user s selection.

The editing module provides a content toolkit as shown in the embodiment depicted in which allows a content creator to create and or edit one or more interactive content elements. In one embodiment the toolkit includes one or more customization tools which allow the content creator to customize the one or more interactive content elements associated with the multimedia element. The one or more customization tools in the toolkit in some embodiments may be arranged in categories where each category contains similar customization tools . In certain embodiments the categories of the content toolkit may be arranged in an accordion such that each category may expand and collapse in response to user input showing and or hiding the one or more customization tools at the same time.

For example in one embodiment the content toolkit may include categories such as Create Customize Distribute and Reports. The Create category may be expanded displaying the one or more customization tools within the category where each tool is represented by an icon. The content creator may then click on the Reports category which would expand the category to display the one or more reporting tools while at the same time collapsing the Create category. In some embodiments all the categories may be expanded to display all the available customization tools . Alternatively only one category may be expanded at a time while the other categories remain collapsed until interacted with by the user.

Referring back to the timing module synchronizes the one of more interactive content elements with the one or more segments of the multimedia element. In certain embodiments the timing module provides an interface with a timeline component that may synchronize one or more interactive content elements with the one or more segments of the multimedia element. The timeline component in some embodiments assigns the position and or duration of the one or more interactive content elements associated with the multimedia element.

For example as shown in the embodiment depicted in a content creator may link to a video hosted on YouTube . The loading module may load the video into a media player capable of multimedia playback . The loading module may also divide the video into one or more segments. The content creator may create a plurality of multiple choice survey questions using the editing module . The multiple choice survey questions may be synchronized with different segments of the video and displayed during playback of the video . After loading the video and creating one or more survey questions the content creator uses the timing module with its associated timeline component to assign the survey questions to one or more segments in the video setting when the survey questions will be displayed and for how long e.g. Question 1 will be displayed after the video has been playing for 25 seconds and will be displayed for 5 seconds .

In some embodiments the content creator may utilize video branching to link the video or any other multimedia element to a different video based on the user s responses. In one embodiment the content creator may also link to position within the same video. As shown in the branching graph of the content creator may create many multimedia paths for a user to go through based on the user s responses. In one embodiment the editing module displays the branching graph to provide a quick overview of the multimedia branching provided in their interactive multimedia project. In the depicted embodiment a plurality of video clips are linked together based on the user s responses. The branching graph in some embodiments is interactive which allows the content creator to edit the links and change the order of the multimedia branching. In certain embodiments the video path selected by a user may be saved such that a final video incorporating the selected video clips may be shared with others by for example a social network SMS email and or the like.

In another embodiment the editing module creates multimedia content such as videos audio tracks slideshows and the like. In a further embodiment the editing module creates a video from static content uploaded by a content creator such as one or more photographs documents and the like. In one embodiment the editing module provides screen capture capabilities such that a content creator may record a series of screen shots from a computer interface. For example a content creator may create a tutorial for using a software product by recording a series of computer interface screen shots demonstrating the product being used. In another embodiment the content creator may add audio tracks voice over tracks or the like to the created multimedia content. As with multimedia content that is uploaded interactive content elements such as survey questions call to action buttons hot spots lead capture forms and or the like may be added to and synchronized with the created content.

In one embodiment the editing module creates a community feedback service where a user may solicit feedback from one or more persons by overlaying one or more questions a poll a quiz or the like on a multimedia content element. For example a user shopping for a shirt in a clothing store may want to ask his friends whether he should buy the green shirt or the blue shirt. The user may take a picture of both shirts with his smart phone and overlay questions that he creates such as Should I buy the blue or green one The user in one embodiment sends the picture with the interactive content elements to one or more of his friends. In another embodiment he posts the interactive multimedia content on his social network. In a further embodiment he creates a poll to determine how many people think he should buy the green or the blue shirt. The results of the poll may be kept private in one embodiment or in a different embodiment the results may be shown to everyone in real time. Alternatively companies may use this to gain feedback regarding packaging product design or the like. For example a company may post one or more pictures or videos with surveys polls or the like overlaying the content to solicit feedback from one or more persons.

The editing module in yet another embodiment creates an interactive video blog that can incorporate user reviews and be shared on various social networks. For example a user may create a video blog covering a recent visit to a restaurant. The user may create one or more interactive content elements such as a survey poll open ended questions or the like and synchronize the interactive content with the video review. The video blog and the users responses to the interactive content elements in one embodiment may be shared on one or more social sites such as Yelp Facebook YouTube or the like. Similarly a user may create a video blog of a product and incorporate interactive content to gain other s feedback regarding the product. In one embodiment the feedback collected is posted on the site where the product was purchased such as Amazon or on a similar site where the product is listed for sale.

In another embodiment the editing module receives voice commands and or input from the content creator. For example a content creator may create a series of survey questions quiz questions assessments and or the like using voice input. The editing module may receive the voice input and use voice recognition software to translate the voice input into text. Similarly the editing module allows a content creator to select an option to receive voice input from a user when a user interacts with an interactive content element. For example a user may respond vocally to a survey question instead of typing an answer or clicking on an answer choice if the content creator has selected a voice input option.

In certain embodiments the editing module may also be used by the content creator to produce static interactive content elements that may not necessarily be synchronized with the multimedia element such as advertisements social media links external website links and the like. In other embodiments the editing module creates incentives such as coupons offers discounts or the like and may assign the created incentives to a multimedia element loaded by the loading module . For example a content creator may customize a coupon for a 15 discount in a store and choose a distribution method such as SMS text message email social media digital voice or the like. Thus as described above a user may receive the coupon if he replies using the distribution method of choice such as text message views the multimedia content and responds to the interactive content elements.

In some embodiments the editing module creates incentives based on a user s loyalty point program frequent flyer program or other type of loyalty program. In one embodiment a content creator may select an option to provide a loyalty program incentive by allowing a user to connect to the user s loyalty program such that after a user interacts with the interactive multimedia content the user may enter their loyalty program credentials to receive the offered promotion. In another embodiment the content creator may select a predefined keyword to be assigned to the incentive such as coupon discount or the like which the user would need to use in their electronic message to receive the discount.

The editing module in some embodiments may create batch coupon codes which a content creator may use for their user incentives. In other embodiments the content creator may upload a list of pre generated coupon codes which may be used at any time during content creation. The coupon codes which may be any type of code associated with a discount offer bonus or the like may be created as one time use codes or as multiple use codes. One time use codes as the name suggests may only be used once and are then invalidated and or removed from the system. Multiple use codes may be used multiple times by a single user or shared with many users. In some embodiments multiple use codes may be assigned a limit of how many times the code may be used.

In one embodiment the administration module may also include a layout module . The layout module positions the media player capable of media playback the content toolkit and the timeline component of the timing module proximate each other within a single window. This type of layout provides a streamlined interface such that a content creator does not have to switch contexts between windows and or other interfaces in order to load edit and synchronize the one or more interactive content elements with the multimedia element.

The distribution module distributes the one or more interactive content elements synchronized with the multimedia element to advertising affiliates and or other third party platforms. For example in one embodiment a content creator loads a video creates interactive content and synchronizes the content with the video. The distribution module distributes the content to advertising affiliates who may embed the video together with the synchronized interactive content on their website. In this manner the content creator is able to gain more real time feedback in response to a user interacting with the one or more interactive content elements than traditional advertising methods such as banner ads and email campaigns.

Further in some embodiments when the video is interacted with by a user the affiliate may gain an affiliate commission and or credit. In one embodiment the embedded code used to display the multimedia content may include the affiliate s identifier and or an affiliate code in order to trace any interactivity with the multimedia content to the affiliate. The affiliate in certain embodiments may receive credits commissions or the like in response to users playing the multimedia content on the affiliate s site making a purchase associated with the multimedia content interacting with the interactive content elements and or the like.

In some embodiments the multimedia element and its synchronized interactive content elements may be stored on a server. The distribution module in one embodiment may share with affiliates an embed link for the multimedia element and its synchronized interactive content elements. In this manner all the affiliates are linking to the same content stored on the server which may allow changes and or updates to the multimedia element and or the one or more interactive content elements to be distributed in real time among affiliates that may use the embedded content.

For example in one embodiment a product video may be loaded by a retailer. The retailer may place an interactive Buy Now button at the end of the video that a viewer may use to buy the product displayed in the video. The retailer stores the video on a server and shares an embed link with his advertising affiliates who in turn display the video on their one or more websites. The retailer however would also like to add a More Info button that a viewer can use to get more information about the product. The retailer only has to add the button to the video stored on the server and all the videos displayed on affiliate websites using the embed link will be updated simultaneously in real time.

The distribution module in some embodiments integrates the apparatus with social media sites such as Facebook Twitter Google and the like providing the content creator with an effective tool to quickly share and promulgate content. In one embodiment the distribution module may post multimedia content with its one or more synchronized interactive content elements on a user s social media site. The one or more interactive content elements may include trivia questions survey questions polls quizzes games and the like that may be used to gain real time information from others in the user s social network who view the content on the user s social media site. In other embodiments the distribution module shares a user s customized recommendations scores evaluations and the like in real time on their social media site. The social media site allows the content to be shared by others in the user s social network including the user s friends friends of the user s friends and so on quickly promulgating the content.

For example a user may share an e learning video which includes synchronized interactive content on the wall of his Facebook page. The user s friends may watch the video on the user s wall while simultaneously providing feedback and data in real time by interacting with the interactive content. The user s friends may share the video with their friends by liking the video posted on the user s wall. The friends of the user s friends may also like the video thus virally distributing the video through the user s social network. This viral promulgation may allow a content creator to produce brand awareness product sales and or other marketing objectives through a self replicating viral process. In other embodiments the content may be distributed virally through interactive games eBooks images text messages and the like.

In one embodiment the distribution module distributes the multimedia content through embedded experiences. Embedded experiences as used herein are means to embed the services provided by a third party into a container on a social network website. For example a user may share a YouTube video on their Twitter feed. YouTube may post a tweet about the video to the user s Twitter account. The tweet may contain an embedded experience where the user s Twitter followers may view the video from within Twitter without having to go to the YouTube website to watch the video. Further an embedded experience may allow a user to perform other actions such as sharing content reviewing content posting comments or the like. The service providing the embedded experience may specify which features to make available to a user.

In some embodiments the distribution module provides an embedded experience as illustrated in where a user logs into their administration account from a social network website such as Facebook Twitter or the like. In another embodiment the embedded experience may be contained within an IBM Connections webpage. IBM Connections is a social software platform for organizations and enterprises. In one embodiment the embedded experience may be embodied as an open social gadget and or an iWidget. As used herein the open social framework includes multiple application programming interfaces API that allow social software applications such as an open social gadget or iWidget to access data and core functionality on participating social networks. An open social gadget or iWidget may be developed in a web based programming language such as HTML JavaScript or the like.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the user accessing his account through the embedded experience after logging in to his account may select a project to distribute to others on the social network where the embedded experience is being contained. The user in a further embodiment may select friends and or contacts to share the project with. In some embodiments the user may distribute the content to one or more specific persons post the content in a general status update message distribute the content to a specific group within an organization and or the like. For example the user may distribute the content to the marketing department from their IBM Connections account. In another embodiment the user may access a snapshot of key metrics associated with the multimedia content shared through the embedded experience by selecting the appropriate project from a drop down or similar menu within the embedded experience container. In other embodiments the embedded experience container displays a link to the user s administrator account that when clicked takes the user to their administration account where the user may create more interactive multimedia content view the full set of metrics or the like.

In another embodiment the embedded experience may be a container for distributed interactive multimedia content. For example as illustrated in a video that is shared by a user on their IBM Connections webpage may be displayed in an open social gadget and or iWidget on the recipient s IBM Connections webpage. In one embodiment the embedded experience may be shared on a user s social activity stream a user s social webpage or the like. In another embodiment the embedded experience may be sent to a user in an email and may be viewed within the body of the email. In yet another embodiment the email may contain a link to the embedded experience that a user can click to take them to their social webpage to view the shared content. For example a user may receive an email from IBM Connections that says John Doe shared a video with you. Click here to view the video. The video may be viewed either within the email itself or the recipient may click a link that takes them to their IBM Connections webpage to view the video. The video may contain interactive content in accordance with this disclosure such as surveys quizzes lead capture forms or the like. In some embodiments the recipient may be allowed to view responses and or statistics of all previous viewers of the content within the embedded experience container. In one embodiment the responses of previous viewers are not viewable by the recipient unless the user sharing the content specifies that the recipient may view the responses of previous viewers.

Referring to in another embodiment the distribution module may send the multimedia element synchronized with one or more interactive content elements directly to a mobile device such as a smart phone in response to a scanned quick response QR code. The QR code may be printed on any direct mail piece such as brochures print advertisements newspapers and the like or may be found posted in stores or other places. For example a user may use a smart phone to scan a QR code associated with a product advertisement printed in a newspaper. The distribution module may display a video and or interactive content such as survey questions in response to the QR code being scanned. Alternatively the distribution module may display product offers promotions and or other rewards created by the rewards module in response to a scanned QR code. In other embodiments the distribution module may send interactive content such as customer service surveys to a device in response to a scanned sales receipt a printed code manually entered by a user a printed URL on a receipt a URL in an SMS message and or the like.

In one embodiment the distribution module may be located on a device and may send the multimedia and interactive content elements to another device in response to a near field communication NFC request. For example the distribution module may be located on an iPhone which has synchronized multimedia and interactive content elements stored on the phone. An iPad may use an NFC request to request the multimedia and interactive content elements from the iPhone which the distribution module may then send to the iPad. In another example a smart TV may send out NFC notifications to any proximate client devices capable of receiving NFC communications. The distribution module may then distribute content to any client devices that respond to the NFC notification.

In another embodiment the distribution module distributes multimedia and interactive content elements to a crowd sourcing service such as kickstarter.com 99designs.com and the like. For example a user may create a video highlighting their products goods services or the like to be evaluated by others. The video may show a series of products where after one product is shown and before the product is displayed an interactive survey appears requesting a viewer s opinions reviews comments or the like regarding the displayed product. The viewer in order to view the remaining products in the video would need to answer one or more survey questions to continue playback. In one embodiment the content creator may offer a discount prize gift or the like to incentivize the viewer to donate money to the content creator s project and or obtain the viewer s feedback. In other embodiments the content creator may request suggestions from a viewer and rank the results according to the most helpful suggestions. The content creator may offer prizes for first second and third place or the like.

In one embodiment the distribution module distributes multimedia and interactive content elements to photo sharing websites. In certain embodiments the photo sharing websites contain static images videos and other dynamic content such as animated gifs. In another embodiment the photo sharing website includes a pinboard style layout such as pinterest.com lockerz.com or the like. The distribution module may distribute interactive content elements to display with the multimedia content. For example the photos may include hotspots survey questions or the like associated with the displayed photos. The interactive content in one embodiment is not visible until the user rolls over the photos for example with a mouse or other input device.

In another embodiment the distribution module delivers multimedia with interactive content to gaming applications played on mobile devices smart phones consoles interactive televisions computers or the like. Often game developers provide in app or in game elements such as in app purchases or advertising to try to incentivize a player to spend money visit an advertiser s website or the like. For example a player may be required to spend money to level up or purchase the next stage of a game to continue playing. In one embodiment the distribution module distributes interactive multimedia content as the in app element. For example in order for a player to get to the next level or level up he may be required to view a video and answer survey questions take a quiz fill out a lead form or the like associated with the video. In other embodiments actions or events within the game would trigger the presentation of the in app element. For example an interactive video survey may be displayed when a player reaches a certain level attains an achievement or goes to a specific place within the game. Further in addition to interactive videos in other embodiments the distribution module delivers interactive advertisements sweepstakes quizzes and or the like. In certain embodiments the player s responses are collected and analyzed by the analysis module .

In other embodiments a software application such as a game may include an augmented reality environment such that the application includes a view of a real world environment with elements that are augmented by computer generated sensory input such as audio video graphics GPS or the like. For example a user walking down a street may be viewing the extent of the street in front of them through an application running on a mobile device. The application may augment the street view on the mobile device by adding computer generated elements such as ratings for various restaurants on the street offers and various retail stores on the street points of interest or the like. The distribution module in one embodiment distributes interactive media content to the application running on the smart device to augment the view of the street. Thus for example in order to receive a discount at a store on the street the user would need to watch a product video and complete a questionnaire associated with the video. The coupon would then be sent via text email or the like to the user in response to completing the questionnaire.

The administration module in one embodiment may also include a forms module that may be used to create interactive forms incorporating various types of the above mentioned multimedia elements. For example a content creator may want to display an opt in form on their company web site with an embedded video describing the company. The user may gain additional information about the company by disclosing on the opt in form information such as the user s name email address and the like. In response to the user disclosing information on the opt in form the trigger module may display additional multimedia and or interactive content elements. The trigger module in other embodiments may respond by displaying a different website sending an email and or the like. In another embodiment the trigger module sends real time responses in response to receiving a completed form from a user via email text message and or the like. In one embodiment the trigger module may use the rewards module to offer the user incentives offers promotions and the like in return for disclosing information on the opt in form. Other types of forms may include various legal documents contracts agreements records and the like.

The payment module in one embodiment is configured to collect payments produce invoices and or facilitate other financial transaction related activities in connection with a user s interaction with the multimedia element and or the one or more interactive content elements. For example a user may click on a product advertisement on a webpage to purchase the advertised product. Instead of being directed to the product seller s website as in traditional systems the user is presented with an interactive form created by the forms module that allows the user to fill in their billing information and purchase the product from the current site. Alternatively the payment module creates an invoice of the purchase for the user.

In other embodiments the payment module is configured to support micro transactions where items such as currency loyalty points achievements and the like can accumulate throughout the user interaction period not only at a specific point of purchase. In some embodiments the payment module may provide a digital shopping cart similar to most online retail stores where a user can select one or more products during their interaction period to purchase in a single transaction when the user is finished. The payment module may be configured to accept real currency loyalty points rewards points and or the like from the user to complete a transaction.

The input detection module detects user interaction with the interactive content and employs a trigger module that performs an action in response to the user input . If the input detection module does not detect user input it will continue to detect user input and employ the trigger module until the multimedia content has ended . If the multimedia content has not ended the synchronization module will continue to synchronize the multimedia element with the one or more interactive content elements. The input detection module will continue to detect user input until the multimedia content is finished . Then the method ends.

The input detection module in one embodiment detects user input in response to a user interacting with an interactive content element. The method will continue to detect user input if it is not present. If user input is detected the analysis module analyzes the input data. The data in certain embodiments may be stored in a database for future use by additional modules and or applications. The metrics module may use the data to create custom metrics regarding the user input detected by the input detection module . Further the data may be used to create custom reports such as recommendations evaluations and assessments in response to the user input detected by the input detection module .

If playback of the multimedia content has not finished the method will continue to display the one or more interactive content elements synchronized with the multimedia element. Otherwise the method ends.

The editing module in one embodiment provides an interface that a content creator can use to create and or edit one or more interactive content elements . The timing module synchronizes the one or more interactive content elements with the multimedia element loaded by the loading module . In one embodiment a timeline component may be used to select a time and duration in the multimedia element for each of the one or more interactive content elements to be displayed. The one or more interactive content elements are then associated with the one or more multimedia segments represented by the selected time and duration. The content creator may continue to create one or more interactive content elements if he is not finished assigning interactive content elements to the one or more multimedia segments. Otherwise the method ends.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

