---

title: Systems and methods for automated house damage detection and reporting
abstract: A system for automated house damage detection and reporting may comprise at least one subsystem configured for receiving a damage detection signal detecting potential damage to a building from at least one sensor operably connected to the building, and at least one subsystem configured for automatically communicating damage detection data using the received damage detection signal to a remote system outside the building for further analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08749381&OS=08749381&RS=08749381
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08749381
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130319
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 362 136 filed Jan. 31 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 400 299 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 492 437 filed on Jun. 26 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 106 769 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Smart house functionality is a maturing space but the opportunity for insurance companies remains largely untapped. Currently there are no truly useful early warning and loss mitigation systems that actually save costs and time for both the homeowner and insurance company alike. Currently homeowners insurance claim events are detected by the homeowner and they contact their insurance company to inform them that there has been a loss. However further loss could be mitigated with automated warning and detection systems that interface with the insurance company systems. For example homeowners may often never become aware of minor to medium hail damage to their roofs until such time as that damage leads to further water damage. If they could be made aware of such loss events earlier and then take corrective actions then the increased damage and loss could have been mitigated.

In this regard there is a need for systems and methods that overcome the shortcomings described above and others.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In consideration of the above identified shortcomings of the art systems and methods for automated house damage detection and reporting are described herein. For several embodiments a system automated house damage detection and reporting may comprise at least one subsystem configured for receiving a damage detection signal detecting potential damage to a building from at least one sensor operably connected to the building and at least one subsystem configured for automatically communicating damage detection data using the received damage detection signal to a remote system outside the building for further analysis.

Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. Certain well known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of various embodiments and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice the embodiments.

Referring next to shown is a block diagram representing an exemplary computing environment suitable for use in conjunction with implementing the processes described below. For example the computer executable instructions that carry out the processes and methods for automated house damage detection and reporting may reside and or be executed in such a computing environment as shown in . The computing environment is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the embodiments. Neither should the computing environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary computing environment . For example a mobile device may also include one or more items such as those described below for use in conjunction with implementing the processes described below.

Aspects of the embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Aspects of the embodiments may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing aspects of the embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory a graphics interface a graphics processing unit GPU video memory video interface and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RE infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computer may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modern or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modern which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein a system or subsystem may comprise one or more of or any combination of the following mechanical devices hardware components of hardware circuits circuitry logic design logical components software software modules components of software or software modules software procedures software instructions software routines software objects software functions software classes software programs files containing software etc. to perform the intended function of the system or subsystem. Thus the methods and apparatus of the embodiments or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the embodiments. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the embodiments e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the embodiments in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the embodiments are not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the embodiments may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers handheld devices supercomputers or computers integrated into other systems such as automobiles and airplanes.

Referring next to shown is an exemplary networked computing environment in which many computerized processes may be implemented to perform the processes described below. For example distributed or parallel computing may be part of such a networked environment with various clients on the network of using and or implementing systems and methods for automated house damage detection and reporting. One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that networks can connect any computer or other client or server device or in a distributed computing environment. In this regard any computer system or environment having any number of processing memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring simultaneously is considered suitable for use in connection with the systems and methods provided.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may implicate the processes described herein.

This network may itself comprise other computing entities that provide services to the system of and may itself represent multiple interconnected networks. In accordance with aspects of the embodiments each entity and may contain discrete functional program modules that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware to request services of one or more of the other entities and .

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device . Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any such infrastructures whether coupled to the Internet or not may be used in conjunction with the systems and methods provided.

A network infrastructure may enable a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. In computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the example of any entity and can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances.

A server is typically though not necessarily a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

In light of the diverse computing environments that may be built according to the general framework provided in and the further diversification that can occur in computing in a network environment such as that of the systems and methods provided herein cannot be construed as limited in any way to a particular computing architecture. Instead the embodiments should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

Referring next to shown is a partial cross sectional elevation view of an example house roof having a hail damage detection system in accordance with systems and methods for automated house damage detection and reporting. For example the roof may comprise a substrate layer with a plurality of shingles layered on top of the substrate . Below the substrate are one or more sensors that are operable for detecting an impact on the roof e.g. from a hail stone . The sensors are attached under the roof such that an impact on top of the roof over a certain pressure for example over a specific pounds per square inch psi are detected by the sensors . The sensors may be placed throughout the entire roof or within a particular section or sections of the roof. Also the sensors may be calibrated according to the particular strength or thickness of the materials of which the roof is comprised. For example if the roof is a composite roof instead of a shingle roof the sensors may be arranged and or calibrated to detect a larger or smaller impacts as necessary. Also the sensors may be placed under especially sensitive areas of the roof such as under skylights within the roof or under solar panels on the roof . Although there are only two example sensors shown in any number of sensors may be used as is appropriate for the particular application cost limitations and roof conditions.

Referring next to shown is a block diagram illustrating an example system within a house for automated house damage detection and reporting. Shown is an example sensor sensor body circuitry and power sensor mounts for mounting of the sensor under a roof and a sensor antenna . Within the sensor body there is circuitry that is operable for detecting and measuring impact on an impact plate of the sensor for example. The antenna is operable for wirelessly communicating data generated by the sensor circuitry regarding one or more detected impacts to a receiving unit . The receiving unit having an operable antenna may be located within the house in which the sensors are installed for example and is operable for collecting interpreting and translating the data generated by the sensor circuitry of one or more sensors and then re transmitting the collected translated data to another location such as an insurance company bank or the resident of the house for further analysis. The collected translated data may be communicated from the receiving unit over any number of suitable communication channels including wired or wireless communication channels and over any number of computer networks. The communication of data between the sensor and receiving unit may be via a direct wireless short range communication channel or indirectly through a wireless local area network LAN public switching center router or other public network located outside the house. Within the damage detection data sent by the sensor may be data indicating the location of the impact based on the location under the roof at which the sensor is installed. This location data may be programmed into and stored within the sensor during or after installation of the sensor . Also more specific roof damage location may be determined by using an electrical grid installed underneath the shingles of a roof creating an electrical connection between each of the shingles. If an impact sensor detects damage then the particular shingle damaged may be located by determining if and where there is a break in the electrical connection between the shingles. This break in the electrical connection may be detected by a sensor that receives radio frequency identification signals from each shingle in the electrical grid. If an RFID signal is no longer being detected by one of the shingles after the impact was detected then it may be determined that that shingle was damaged.

Other damage detection systems and or sensors e.g. water damage sensors electrical system damage sensors noise sensors for pest detection gas leak sensors radiation sensors sensors to detect motion of the house during a natural disaster water pressure sensors sonar sensors light sensors to detect creosote buildup etc. may also be installed within the house that are operable for communicating damage detection data to the receiving unit for collection interpretation and translation of the communicated damage detection data from the other damage detection systems and or sensors .

Referring next to shown is a block diagram illustrating a portion of an example system extending outside the house for automated house damage detection and reporting. Shown is the customer house an example radio tower customer mobile computing and communication systems and insurance company systems . The customer house customer mobile computing and communication systems and insurance company systems may all be in operable wireless communication with each other through any number of communication channels and or computer networks one or more of which may be via a radio or cellular tower that facilitates the automated communications. Damage detection data may be automatically communicated from the customer house systems shown in either from the sensors themselves or from the receiving unit to an insurance company and or mobile devices or computing devices of the customer in order to notify the customer and take appropriate actions to prevent impending or further damage and automatically start an insurance claim using the damage detection data received.

Referring next to shown is a flow chart illustrating an example process within the house for automated house damage detection and reporting. First an impact is detected on the roof of a house having a system as described above installed. Next data is recorded regarding the detected impact. For example this data may be recorded within a sensor itself or intermediary collection unit. This recorded data may then be automatically sent to a receiving unit that may be operable for collecting interpreting and re transmitting data from a plurality or variety of different sensors within a particular house.

Referring next to shown is a flow chart illustrating an example process for automated house damage detection and reporting to an insurance company. First damage detection data that had originated from sensors within a house is received . The damage detection data is then analyzed for insurance purposes. This analysis may be automated and may include but is not limited to one or more of the following checking local weather conditions in an area surrounding the location at which the damage was detected determining the extent of damage determining whether to automatically initiate an insurance claim determining frequency of damage detection data reports received from a particular house determining frequency of damage detection data reports received from a particular area determining type of damage based on weather conditions and type of damage detection data etc.

Next an insurance rate may be adjusted and or insurance claim initiated using the analysis of damage detection data. This analysis may be for example analysis of damage detection data received over a particular period of time from a particular house neighborhood or other specific area. Using the extent type and frequency of damage detection data received insurance rates may be adjusted for the particular house neighborhood or other specific area

It is noted that the foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purposes of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention. While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitations. Further although embodiments have been described herein with reference to particular means and materials the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings of this specification may effect numerous modifications thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects.

