---

title: System and method facilitating communication in an adaptive virtual environment
abstract: A system for facilitating communication in an adaptive virtual environment is disclosed. For example, the system creates a virtual image of a communication device running services rendered by one or more telecom service providers, wherein the communication device belongs to a user. The system emulates hardware and software configuration of the communication device in the virtual image, wherein the virtual image is stored in the memory. The system synchronizes the memory, storing the hardware and software configuration in the virtual image, with a device memory of a user device at pre-determined intervals of time. The system further remotely installs the hardware and software configuration in the user device upon executing the virtual image thereby creating a virtual environment in the user device. The system further generates a unique number for the user. The system further facilitates communication using the one or more telecom service providers based upon the unique number.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100811&OS=09100811&RS=09100811
owner: TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LIMITED
number: 09100811
owner_city: 
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20130904
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Indian Application No. 2565 MUM 2012 filed Sep. 4 2012. The aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to a communication technologies and more particularly to a system and method facilitating communication in an adaptive virtual environment.

Mobile phones provide a memory with large storage capacity which may allow a user to not only store a large amount of data in it also maintain all day to day tasks. Loss of the mobile device loss of the network or discharge of the battery of mobile phone may cause a user to be unable to access the data stored in the mobile phone or remain connected with others. The privacy of data stored in the mobile phone may also be at risk in case of loss.

One of the ways to prevent this is to maintain an offline copy of the data by synchronizing it with a computer. Phones have made it possible to enjoy services of two service providers by using dual SIM cards in a single handset. This feature is dependent on the service providers and number of SIM slots in the hardware. Also the user has to maintain and distribute more than one contact number. In a case when there is low battery situation use of more than one SIM cards may not be feasible solution to remain in contact. Usage of two SIM cards in a single handset is a feature which is not always supported by all mobile handsets and the user may be forced to select such a handset which is capable of providing dual SIM facility.

In one embodiment an adaptive virtual environment communication system is disclosed comprising a processor and a memory storing processor executable instructions comprising instructions to create one or more virtual images of one or more communication devices via a virtual network emulate one or more features of the one or more communication devices synchronize the emulated features in real time by receiving data from the one or more communication devices at pre determined intervals of time and execute one or more of the images of the one or more communication devices.

In one embodiment an adaptive virtual environment communication method is disclosed comprising creating one or more virtual images of one or more communication devices via a virtual network emulating one or more features of the one or more communication devices synchronizing the emulated features in real time by receiving data from the one or more communication devices at pre determined intervals of time and executing one or more of the images of the one or more communication devices.

In one embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is disclosed storing computer executable adaptive virtual environment communication instructions comprising instructions to create one or more virtual images of one or more communication devices via a virtual network emulate one or more features of the one or more communication devices synchronize the emulated features in real time by receiving data from the one or more communication devices at pre determined intervals of time and execute one or more of the images of the one or more communication devices.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

One or more components may be described as modules. For example a module may include self contained components in a hardware circuit comprising of logical gate semiconductor device integrated circuits or any other discrete component. The module may also be a part of any software programme executed by any hardware entity for example processor. The implementation of a module as a software programme may include a set of logical instructions to be executed by the processor or any other hardware entity. Further a module may be incorporated with the set of instructions or a program via an interface.

The present disclosure relates to a system and method for facilitating communication in an adaptive virtual environment. The disclosed embodiments may create one or more virtual images of one or more communication devices by emulating one or more features of the communication device. The virtual images created on a virtual network may be executed on the communication device by first installing them and later running them. A unique number may be generated for each user in the virtual network itself. The unique number could be provisioned and dynamically commissioned by any of the telecom service provider. User can maintain plurality of virtual images for utilizing the services of more than one telecom service providers by using this unique number.

In accordance with some embodiments referring to a system may comprise a virtual network which may be configured to create one or more virtual images of one or more communication devices . The virtual network further may comprise an emulation module and a synchronization module . The system further may comprise a first communication device hereinafter interchangeable referred as a user device communicating with the virtual network for supporting the execution of one or more images thus creating a virtual interface in the first communication device itself for supporting the communication in a virtual environment. The first communication device further may comprise an execution module and a processing device .

In accordance with an embodiment still referring to the virtual network may be configured to create one or more images of the one or more communication devices . The virtual network may include but is not limited to internet cloud like Amazon Web Services AWS Google Application Engine GAE etc. The communication device may include but is not limited to a cell phone laptop etc.

The virtual network further may comprise the emulation module which may be configured to emulate one or more features of the one or more communication devices and store them in a memory storage unit. The virtual network may be further provided with a plurality of servers hereinafter interchangeably referred to as a server servers a backend server and a cloud server with one or more databases having large data storage capacity. All the data emulated by emulation module may be further saved in these databases. The emulation module may be capable of emulating hardware components like antennas via parameterization and configuration of the underline ways physical hardware and also software applications like call dialing and receiving application . This emulation further supports the configuration of a virtual image in this virtual network where the user can access all his features in the virtual network .

One or more features of the communication device emulated by the emulation module may include but is not limited to the application for making or receiving a call application for browsing internet etc.

The virtual network further may comprise the synchronization module which may be configured to synchronize the emulated features in real time by receiving data from the communication device at a regular interval of time. Data received from the communication device may include but is not limited to contact details stored in a cell phone image files text files etc. By way of a specific example let us consider a case when a user s memory card gets corrupted and he loses all his data. Since the user has already created the virtual image of his mobile phone he can now access his lost data by using the virtual interface present in his mobile phone. He simply has to run the virtual image which may be present in his mobile phone in the form of set of programming instructions which can never be lost deleted without the user s consent and will remain in the user s mobile phone. When the user is communicating by using this virtual image he may add new contact details or text or image files in his mobile phone. This newly added data will automatically be saved in the virtual network by means of this synchronization module . This process will be done by the system in a continuous manner till the user himself quits or closes the use of virtual image by using the virtual interface. This feature makes the virtual environment adaptive in nature.

The synchronization module acts like a bridge between the virtual network and the communication devices . The synchronization module may be further configured to allow a user of the communication device to customize the features stored in the virtual network . By this the user may instruct the emulation module to emulate only the features as desired by the user rather emulating all the features.

On the other hand the synchronization module also allows the user to choose various predesigned applications features present in the virtual image. The user can choose to have various programs utility and games prebuilt onto that image. The user can also choose look and feel skin and customize everything on each virtual image.

Referring to the system further may comprise the first communication device communicating with the virtual network for supporting the execution of one or more images thus creating the virtual interface inside the first communication device to run and execute the virtual images thus created. The first communication device further may comprise the execution module which may be configured to first install and later run one or more virtual images created over the virtual network . By way of a specific example the first communication device may be fundamentally capable like most of the modern smart phone based devices to have connectivity via wireless network. The device then connects over wireless network connectivity to the virtual network and upon transactions which are based on credential based access downloads any of the existing virtual image existing in the virtual image storage path to the first communication device over wireless network which may be essentially an internet or TCPIP connectivity. Once it gets downloaded the entire virtual image runs on the first communication device . For the running or execution of the virtual image thus installed connectivity via internet may be not essential. The communication device would now act as a normal mobile device.

Still referring to the first communication device further may comprise the processing device or agent which may be configured to generate a unique number for each user irrespective of number of virtual images owned by the user. This unique number provides an uninterrupted connectivity with people in the contact list irrespective of a particular telecom service provider such that the virtual network remotely manages the connectivity of the first communication device with one or more telecom service providers by using the respective virtual image.

There could be multiple ways to generate the unique number which would be used as a universal communication number for the user. This unique number may be the identity of a particular communication device and may be generated or provided by any of the service provider. The user will be registered with all the service providers. However the unique number will be commissioned based on the user requirement. If the user does not immediately associate the unique number with any of the service provider after generation then it can be forfeited by the provisioning service provider and recycled to be used for another user. The telecom service providers like Airtel BSNL and PSTN may also be communicated and the information will be provided by the first communication device and the servers for one or more utility purpose and for security protocols.

By way of a specific example let us assume that the user communicates with the virtual network for the first time and selects the features to be emulated and stored in the virtual network and creates a virtual image. It s a mandatory step to select at least one telecom service provider along with the data or calling plan so that the user may start his communication in the virtual environment. Along with this while creating the virtual image for the first time or choosing the first telecom service provider a unique number may be also generated which will be linked to all the telecom service providers in a case when user selects more than one telecom service provider. The user then share this unique number as his contact number and also use services of all the telecom service providers under this unique number.

The switching module of the first communication device may be further configured to select one or more telecom service provider from a list stored in the virtual network . This selection may be performed by log in into the virtual image storage using the credentials.

Again referring to the first communication device further may comprise a switching module which may be configured to support a feature of switching from one telecom service provider to other. Thus according to the requirement the user can switch from one telecom service provider to another telecom service provider by selecting the respective virtual image linked with the corresponding telecom service provider. This switching from one telecom service provider to another occurs without any time delay as user may be registered with all telecom service providers and number commissioning could be done dynamically. Also the user has no burden of maintaining of the plurality of contact numbers because he can use the unique number as his universal contact number. This universal number will be responsible for other specific purposes like billing etc.

Again referring to the system further may comprise a backend server to support the communication between the virtual network and the user device .

The virtual network further may comprise a call routing module to enable a feature of call routing by using the virtual image and a bill generating module to generate bill for the first communication device with respect to the service provided by one or more telecom service providers. The bill generated by the bill generating module can be in a consolidated form i.e. a single bill for all the service providers or a different bill for each service provider. These features of generating a bill or routing a call are further performed by using the universal number.

The system and method illustrated to facilitate a communication in an adaptive virtual network may be illustrated by working example stated in the following paragraph the process is not restricted to the said example only.

Referring to all the virtual images thus created over the virtual network are stored in a cloud server . The emulated features are stored in the virtual network are synchronized with that of stored in the phone hardware laptop desktop etc. When someone calls on the unique number generated by the processing device and if the person doesn t pickup or activate voice message then the call it will land up as a voice message over cloud virtual network and the voice call gets recorded and stored in the cloud account of virtual network the user. The user can further setup a routing table or a forwarding address call routing module for this unique number which has been configured and can be locally routed. Like if the user knows that he is in US then any call which originates from India gets routed over VOIP and gets terminated in a local call and user has access to it via voice mail. The call routing and bill generating feature are supported by connecting to the respective PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network . Moreover the unique number may be also provided a link with the reference numbers of the said PSTN for supporting all calling features.

Referring to let us consider a user A purchases a communication device say a mobile device as shown in step . Since the mobile phone may be compatible user A connects to a wireless network in order to browse the internet as shown in step . The user A then enters the virtual image store path as shown in step where created virtual images of his mobile phones are stored. Here the user may be asked to provide his login credentials in order to initiate the process of download of virtual image as shown in step . The user A then checks the virtual image storage system whether virtual image which the user wants to create already exists or not.

If the image does not exist user A then starts creating the virtual image of his mobile phone. The virtual image may be created by selecting mobile phone s features wallpaper interface and service provider along with the data plan as shown in step . The emulation module emulates all the features selected by the user A .

In case the virtual image existed there the user A can download it over his mobile phone as shown in step . This will also create a virtual interface on the user A s mobile phone by which he can run the virtual image as shown in step . Also the user A s mobile device will be provided with either a switch a dial mechanism or a key for connecting to the virtual image repository for switching the virtual image or user A can use wireless network to again connect to the virtual image repository.

Once the image is successfully downloaded and run user A can use the mobile phone and can use various features like call dialing receiving browsing internet chatting sending messages etc which are there in the configured virtual image as shown in step .

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. TEXAS INSTRUMENTS WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM47501UB8 INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. APPLE iPHONE BLACKBERRY ANDROID based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers AMAZON KINDLE NOOK etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles MICROSOFT XBOX NINTENDO DS SONY PLAYSTATION etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation APPLE MACINTOSH OS X UNIX UNIX like system distributions e.g. BERKELEY SOFTWARE DISTRIBUTION BSD FREEBSD NETBSD OPENBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft WINDOWS XP VISTA 7 8 etc. APPLE iOS GOOGLE ANDROID BLACKBERRY OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation APPLE MACINTOSH operating systems AQUA IBM OS 2 MICROSOFT WINDOWS E.G. AERO METRO etc. UNIX X WINDOWS web interface libraries e.g. ACTIVEX JAVA JAVASCRIPT AJAX HTML ADOBE FLASH etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME MOZILLA FIREFOX APPLE SAFARI etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML ADOBE FLASH JAVASCRIPT JAVA application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ACTIVEX ANSI C C MICROSOFT .NET CGI SCRIPTS JAVA JAVASCRIPT PERL PHP PYTHON WEBOBJECTS etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as APPLE MAIL MICROSOFT ENTOURAGE MICROSOFT OUTLOOK MOZILLA THUNDERBIRD etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the modules data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. For example the modules described in this disclosure may be implemented in software and processor may be configured to execute the modules stored as part of the user application data . Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using OBJECTSTORE POET ZOPE etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described a system and method facilitating communication in an adaptive virtual environment. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments. Also the words comprising having containing and including and other similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or items or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

