---

title: Provisioning subscriptions to user devices
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for provisioning a subscription service subscription to a user of a user device, the user device capable of alternatively communicating on a mobile telephone network and on a wireless data network. A request to subscribe the user to the subscription service may comprise a user device identifier and may be received from a mobile service provider system. A message to the user device may be initiated via the mobile telephone network. An access request may be received from the user, via the user device. Upon verifying that the access request was sent by a recipient of the message, the user may be provided with access to the subscription service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591485&OS=09591485&RS=09591485
owner: RHAPSODY INTERNATIONAL INC.
number: 09591485
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131211
---
As smart phones tablet computers and other user devices have become ubiquitous various types of subscription services have arisen to enhance user experiences. These include content provider services data storage services gaming services etc. Content provider services for example give users access to various types of digital content including music movies books etc. Often a content provider service obtains license rights to a library of digital content. A user subscribes to the content provider service to receive content items either individually or bundled together e.g. by genre via a stream. Users are typically able to access content provider services via user devices and sometimes also via other types of devices such as various computers network enabled stereo receivers etc. Traditional search engines and similar tools allow users to search libraries of available content to find content items for viewing listening and or downloading. Users are often charged periodic subscription fees but other payment models are known including for example charges by content item charges by unit time etc. Other example services provided to user devices include map services various other content services etc.

Oftentimes mobile service providers offer their customers subscriptions to third party subscription services either a la carte or bundled with mobile network access. Subscription fees are typically collected from the customer by the mobile service provider and forwarded to the subscription service. Before the customer is able to access the subscription service however it is necessary to provision the subscription so that the service provider knows that the customer is properly subscribed. Provisioning subscriptions to mobile service provider customers however has created difficulties.

For example it is known for a subscription service provider to provision a subscription based on user credentials supplied to a user by the mobile service provider. When the mobile service provider enrolls a user for a subscription to the service provider the mobile service provider sends the subscription service provider an enrollment message indicating an identifier of the user device e.g. a mobile phone number . The user logs in to the mobile service provider system utilizing user credentials supplied by the mobile service provider. Once the user is logged in to the mobile service provider system it directs the user device to a subscription service system. The subscription service system verifies that the user device is authorized to access the subscription service by comparing the identity of the requesting user device to a list of authorized user devices. The identity of the requesting user device is indicated by a user device identifier e.g. the mobile phone number . This arrangement encounters difficulties however when a user device s identifier changes. For example if the user obtains a new user device or a new identifier e.g. a telephone number the service provider system must send an update to the subscription service provider before the user can once again access the subscription service. Also if the user device connects to the subscription service via a connection not using the mobile network then the correct user device identifier may not be provided preventing the user from accessing the subscription service.

It is also known for a user device system to be provided with direct access via an application program interface API to create subscription records at a subscription service provider system. The subscription records indicate a user device identifier of the user device and are initially configured with a flag indicating that the associated user device has not yet logged in to the subscription service provider system. When the subscription service provider system receives an access request from a user device it identifies a corresponding subscription record based on the user device s identifier. If the subscription record is flagged then the subscription service provider system queries the user device to provide user credentials that will be used for subsequent log ins then the flag may be removed from the subscription record and the device given access to the subscription service. If the subscription record is not flagged it indicates that the user of the user device has previously provided user credentials. The user device is then prompted for the user credentials and given access to the subscription service if the correct user credentials are provided. This provisioning method however also suffers from complications and difficulties. For example when a user device identifier changes it is necessary for the mobile service provider system to indicate the change and provide the updated and prior user device identifier to the subscription provider service. Also when the user device connects to the subscription service using a network other than the mobile network the subscription service may not recognize the user device and therefore may prevent access to the subscription service.

Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for provisioning a subscription to a user of a mobile user device capable of alternatively communicating on a mobile network and a wireless data network e.g. a multi access user device . As described herein users often configure multi access user devices to reach the Internet via a wireless data network when available even if an Internet connection through a mobile network is also available. This is often to reduce data related subscription fees. It creates difficulties however when subscriptions are facilitated through a mobile service provider e.g. an administrator of a mobile network . For example when a user requests access to the subscription service via a wireless data network it may be difficult for the subscription service provider to identify the user as a subscribed mobile network customer and determine whether the request should be granted.

Various embodiments facilitate identifying a subscribing user utilizing a short message service SMS or other message that may be transmitted to a user s user device via the mobile network. For example a mobile service provider may submit a subscription request on behalf of a user e.g. a user that is also a customer of the mobile service provider . The subscription request may identify a user device associated with the user e.g. a multi access user device . Upon receiving the subscription request a subscription service provider system may initiate a message to the to the identified mobile user device via the mobile network. The message may contain identifying information that identifies the user and or the associated mobile user device. The user associated with the mobile user device may receive the message and respond by sending an access request to the subscription service provider with the mobile user device. The access request may indicate the identifying information. If the subscription service provider can match the identifying information to a subscription request provided by the mobile service provider then the user may be provided with access to the subscription service.

In some example embodiments the subscription request comprises a mobile telephone number MDN or MSISDN describing the subject mobile user device and optionally includes a mobile contract number or other identifier of the associated user that may be independent of the user device. Upon receipt of the subscription request the subscription service provider may provision a subscription for the identified user. Provisioning the subscription may in some embodiments comprise associating the mobile telephone number and or mobile contract number with a subscription identifier which may be for example a global unique identification GUID . The subscription service provider may then initiate a message including identifying information to the user device e.g. using the mobile telephone number . The message may be an SMS message or other message that is transmitted via the mobile network. The identifying information for example may be the received mobile telephone number the received subscription identifier the subscription identifier or any other suitable information identifying the user or user device.

In addition or instead the message may comprise a link such as a Universal Resource Locator URL that is selectable by the user to initiate contact with the subscription provider service. In some embodiments the identifying information may be embedded in the link. When the user contacts the subscription service provider the identifying information may be provided directly to the system or indirectly e.g. by virtue of the link or the page pointed to by the link . In this way it may not be necessary that the user contact the subscription service provider via the mobile network. The subscriber service system may match the identifying information to a subscription request. If a match is found the subscription service provider may allow the user and user device to access to the subscription service. In some example embodiments if a match is found the subscription service provider may prompt the user and user device to establish user credentials that may be used for subsequent log ins.

Reference will now be made in detail to several example embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. Wherever practical similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict example embodiments of the disclosed systems or methods for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative example embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The subscription service system may provide any suitable type of subscription service to user devices . In some example embodiments the subscription service system provides a content service. For example the subscription service system may operate in conjunction with one or more content distribution networks . The subscription service system may receive a request for a content item from a user e.g. via a user interface . The subscription service system may authenticate the user and or associated user device to determine that the user and or the user device has an active subscription that entitles the user and or device to access the requested content item.

Provided that the authentication is successful the subscription service system may cause the requested content item to be provided to a user device associated with the requesting user . For example the subscription service system may request that the content item be transmitted to the user device by a content distribution network . Content items may be transmitted from the content distribution network e.g. a mirror site thereof to a user device in any suitable manner. For example the content items may be transmitted via a secure communication channel formed between the mirror site and the user device such as a transport layer security TLS or secure socket layer SSL channel. Also for example some content items may be individually encrypted during communication or transmitted in the clear. It will also be appreciated that content items may be provided to user devices as discrete files or units or as part of a stream of content.

The subscription service system may be programmed to implement various tools allowing users to search available content items provided via a user interface. Examples of such tools may include search engines play lists and radio stations. Search engines allow users to locate content items according to any suitable searching methodology such as for example key word searches searches by genre searches by content item type etc. Play lists may be lists of content items for example stored at playback systems . A play list may be created automatically created by editorial staff of the content service and or created based on input from a user device . Play lists may be available to all users only to originating users to select users etc. In some example embodiments users have associated user play lists. User play lists can be play lists that the user generated and or selected to be associated with the user s account. In some example embodiments user play lists may be selected and associated with a user s account automatically e.g. by the subscription service system . A radio station may comprise a flow of content items generated for example by a subscription service system and for example streamed to one or more users. The content items making up a radio station flow may be repeated and or continuously updated e.g. by the subscription service system . Specific content items may be included in a radio station flow or may be selected based on one or more common characteristics e.g. similarity to a set of user selected content items a common genre a common artist a common theme etc. . In addition to indications of content items user play lists may also include indications of radio station flows.

The content distribution network may comprise one or more distributed mirror sites . Each site may comprise one or more data stores comprising content items and a server or other computer device for processing requests. The mirror sites may be mirrors of one another located at disparate geographic and or network locations. For example the content distribution network may balance the loads of various mirror sites by directing requests to transmit content items to different mirror sites based on geographic and or network proximity between the requesting user device and the various mirror sites loads on the mirror sites etc. In some example embodiments the content distribution network may be administered by a third party vendor of the content provider service such as for example LIMELIGHT NETWORKS.

The subscription service system may comprise a data store . The data store may store various data related to the operation of the subscription service system . In some example embodiments the subscription service system stores some or all of a digital content library provided to users of the content service. For example the subscription service system may partially or completely provide content items directly to the users thus replacing some or all of the functionality of the mirror sites . In some example embodiments the data store also comprises a user database that includes data describing various users including for example user play lists associated with users. Also in some example embodiments some or all of the functionality for implementing a content provider service may be consolidated in a single system. For example any combination of the subscription service system and or the content distribution network or various mirror sites may be consolidated into one or more single systems e.g. at a common geographic location . Although a subscription based content service is described it will be appreciated that the environment and subscription provisioning systems and methods described herein may be utilized for any suitable type of subscription service. Examples of other subscription services include cloud storage services gaming services etc. Also it will be appreciated that while some subscription services charge users a subscription fee the systems and methods described herein may also be applicable to free subscription services.

Various components etc. of the environment may communicate with one another via a wide area network or WAN . The WAN may be any suitable type of wired wireless or mixed network and may comprise for example the Internet. The various components etc. may access the WAN in any suitable manner. For example some components may be directly in communication with an Internet backbone connection or indirectly in communication through a local area network LAN and or an Internet service provider ISP . Also some components may be in communication with the WAN via a mobile network.

Some components of the environment such as multi access user devices are capable of being in communication with the WAN alternatively via a mobile network and via wireless data network. is a block diagram illustrating a multi access user device configured to connect to the WAN via a mobile network and via a wireless data network . The multi access user device may be any type of user device that is capable of communicating on more than one type of network. For example the multi access user device may be a smart phone such as any version of the IPHONE available from APPLE INC. any phone running the ANDROID operating system available from GOOGLE INC. etc.

The mobile network or mobile telephone network may comprise one or more base stations configured for direct wireless communications with multi access user devices . Each base station may comprise a cellular tower or other suitable antenna for receiving and transmitting wireless communications with user devices . Base stations may be geographically distributed allowing users of the multi access user devices to access the mobile network over a wide range of geographic areas. Base stations may also be configured to execute a hand off routine whereby a multi access user device is handed off from one base station to another as the user device travels from place to place. Each base station may be in communication with a backhaul network that may in turn be in communication with various other communications components. For example the backhaul network may be in communication with the WAN for example via an Internet backbone connection. This may allow multi access user devices to access the WAN and therefore the other components of the environment through the mobile network . In some example embodiments the backhaul network is also in communication with the public switched telephone network PSTN . This may allow multi access user devices to initiate and receive voice calls with other telephones.

In various embodiments the mobile network may implement a short message service SMS to allow multi access user devices to send and receive text messages. SMS service may be implemented in any suitable manner and in various example embodiments may utilize a control channel for receiving and sending the text messages. It will be appreciated that the mobile network may be implemented according to any suitable standard or protocol. For example the mobile network may be a 3G network a 4G network or any other suitable network type.

The wireless data network may comprise one or more wireless access points . Wireless access points may comprise any suitable type of wireless component capable of communicating with the multi access user device . For example some wireless access points comprise integral routers for routing communications from the mobile user device . The various wireless access points may be in communication with one or more Internet service providers ISP s either directly or indirectly via a local area network LAN not shown in . The ISP s may provide access to the WAN for example via a backbone connection. In this way the multi access user devices may access the WAN and the various other components of the architecture via the wireless data network . The wireless data network may be implemented according to any suitable wireless communication protocol including for example any of the IEEE 802.11 standards commonly referred to as WIFI.

It will be appreciated that the mobile network and wireless data network architectures described in are example architectures and that any suitable network type may be used. For example some multi access devices may be capable of communicating with a satellite based mobile network in addition to or instead of the mobile network as illustrated in . Also with respect to the wireless data network any suitable type of communication architecture or protocol may be utilized in addition to or instead of the architecture and protocol described. Examples of such alternate protocols and architectures include BLUETOOTH ZIG BEE ultra wide band UWB induction wireless infrared wireless etc. In some example embodiments a multi access user device may connect to the network utilizing a wired connection. For example the multi access user device may be connected directly to a wireless access point via a wired connection.

As compared to mobile networks wireless data networks typically provide less geographic coverage. For example wireless access points typically have considerably smaller communication ranges than those of base stations or satellites not shown and typically do not implement hand off routines. On the other hand the cost to the user of using a wireless data network is often much less than the cost of using a mobile network . For example users typically pay for access to mobile networks and the cost of the access is often related to the amount of data transferred to and from the WAN . Many mobile network plans require the user to purchase a predetermined amount of data usage e.g. 2 gigabytes per month . If the user exceeds the pre purchased amount the user pays for additional data use. In contrast wireless data networks do not typically charge a user based on the amount of data usage. For example many wireless data networks are implemented utilizing the user s home ISP . Many ISP s either do not charge based on data usage or have much higher usage limits.

Because of these properties of mobile networks and wireless data networks many users configure their multi access user devices to communicate with the WAN via wireless data networks when such networks are available e.g. when the user is at home or at an establishment that provides free wireless data network access . As described herein this creates difficulties when a mobile service provider attempts to create a subscription for a multi access user device or user at a third party subscription service.

Once the user device receives the message the user device may initiate an access request directed towards the subscription service system . The access request may be made automatically or upon initiation by a user associated with the user device . The access request may also request access to a subscription service offered by the system and may additionally include the identifying information included in the message. The access request may be transmitted either over the mobile network or the wireless data network . The subscription service system may receive the request at . Provided that the identifying information included in the access request matches the identifying information included in a corresponding message the subscription service system may grant the access request to allow the user device to access the relevant subscription service.

The subscription service system may provision the subscription. Provisioning the subscription may comprise associating information identifying the user and or device with a subscription identifier. In some example embodiments subscription identifier may be and or comprise a global unique identifier GUID . In some embodiments the subscription service system may create a user entry for the user which may comprise the subscription identifier as well as other information describing the user and or the multi access user device . For example the user entry may include the subscription identifier and optionally identifiers of the user and device included in the subscription request . In some embodiments the subscription request may also indicate a subscription service and or subscription type to be opened for the user and device . For example the subscription service system may be configured to administer multiple subscription services and or multiple varieties of subscriptions. The indication of the subscription service may also be associated with the subscription and for example stored at the subscription entry.

The subscription request may be transmitted from the mobile service provider system to the subscription service system in any suitable manner. For example in some embodiments the subscription service system may implement an application program interface API that allows the mobile service provider system to direct the request to the system . The API may be implemented according to any suitable proprietary and or common protocol including for example Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP a RESTful Representational State Transfer or other suitable Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP protocol etc. Also in some embodiments the subscription request may be received as a batch processing request in any suitable format.

Upon receiving the request the subscription service system may direct a message to the multi access user device via the mobile network described above. The message may comprise information identifying the subscription including for example the mobile telephone number and or account number of the user the GUID or other service assigned identification etc. In some embodiment the message may comprise and or be a short message service SMS message transmitted via the mobile network .

Upon receiving the message the multi access user device and or a user thereof may direct an access request to the subscription service system . The access request may be directed over the mobile network and or the wireless data network and may request access to a subscription service administered by the subscription service system . In some embodiments the access request may comprise information identifying the subscription associated with the multi access user device and or the user . After receiving the access request the subscription service system may verify the request for example by matching the subscription identifying information with a subscription account. If a match is made the multi access user device may be given access to the subscription service. For example the device may be prompted for user credentials that may be used for subsequent log ins. In some embodiments the subscription service system may automatically generate the user credentials and provide them to the user . For example the user s credentials may be a variation of their mobile telephone number e.g. the last four digits thereof .

In some embodiments the message may comprise a link to a web page . The link in some embodiments may be embedded to contain some or all of the information identifying the subscription. For example the identifying information may be embedded in the URL or other link identifying the web page . The web page may be hosted by the subscription service system or other suitable system. In some embodiments the access request may be represented by a request to access the web page . Also in some embodiments the subscription service system may prompt the user and or device through the web page for identifying information user credentials etc. Also in some embodiments as indicated in the message may be initiated by the mobile service provider system instead of the subscription service system . For example the mobile service provider system may send the message a set amount of time after sending the subscription request upon confirmation of provision of the subscription by the subscription service system etc.

At the mobile service provider system may receive a subscription service request from a user . The user may be a new and or an existing subscriber of to the mobile network administered by a mobile service provider associated with the system . The mobile service provider may offer the subscription for example upon demand and or as part of a bundle of services that may also include access to the mobile network . In some embodiments the subscription may be offered to users who are new customers and or existing customers who are renewing or their contract.

At the mobile service provider system may generate a subscription request associated with the user and transmit the subscription request to the subscription service system . The subscriber service system may receive the subscription request at . The subscription request may be transmitted in any suitable manner for example as described herein. As described herein the subscription request may identify the user and or an associated user device as described herein. At the subscription service system may create a subscription account for the user for example as described herein.

At the subscription service system may direct a message to the user device over the mobile network. The message may be addressed to the user device based on information describing the user device received as part of the subscription request. By directing the message to the user device via the mobile network the subscription service system may simplify the process of verifying subscription requests as described below and may also increase the likelihood that the user device will receive the message. For example the user device may be configured to receive messages over the mobile network even if the device is otherwise configured to conduct data transactions over the wireless data network .

The message may comprise identifying information identifying the user and or the device . The identifying information may comprise the identifier of the device received from the system the identifier of the user received from the system and or the subscription identifier etc. The identifying information may be included in the message in any suitable manner for example as described herein. For example the identifying information may be included in the message as text that may be manually and or automatically included in an access request as described below.

The user device may receive the message at . At the user device may direct an access request to the subscription service system . The access request may include some or all of the identifying information and may take any suitable form. For example the access request may be made via an API or other suitable interface between the user device and the subscription service system . When the message comprises a link such as a URL the access request may take the form of the user device selecting the link to access the pointed to web page such as the page described above. In some embodiments further communication between the subscriber service system and the user device may be conducted via the web page. In some embodiments the user device may access the web page via a hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS or other secure connection.

At the subscription service system may receive the access request and verify that the request is originated from a user or associated user device associated with an existing user account e.g. a user account generated at . The verification may take any suitable form. For example in some example embodiments the subscription service system may prompt the user device to provide the identifying information included in the message . The user device and or the user may review the message to determine the identifying information and transmit the information to the subscriber service system . For example the user device may be programmed to automatically parse the message to locate and provide the identifying information to the system . Also in some embodiments the user may be prompted to read the message locate the identifying information and manually provide the identifying information to the system . In example embodiments where the message comprises a link the act of sending the access request may provide the subscriber service system with the identifying information. For example the link and or the webpage itself may be associated at the subscriber service system with the identifying information and or the account such as the account created at .

Once the subscriber service system has received the identifying information it may determine whether the identifying information is associated with a valid subscription account such as the account created at . If so the subscription provider system may provide the user device and its associated user with access to the indicated subscription service. The level of access may be determined for example based on the subscription request received from the mobile service provider system . In some example embodiments in addition to or instead of providing direct access to the subscription service the subscription service system may prompt the device and or user to provide user credentials that may be used for subsequent attempts to access the subscription service. User credentials may be generated by the user device and or provided directly by the user . At the user device may provide the user credentials to the subscription service system which may store the credentials in association with the account of the user or user device at . In some embodiments the subscription service system may generate some or all of the user credentials and provide the credentials to the user device . For example the subscription service system may generate a temporary password that the user may change upon logging in to the subscription service. Once the user and device are associated with user credentials the user and or device may utilize the credentials for subsequent log ins and or requests for the subscription services.

Although the process flow shows the message request directed to the mobile service provider system it will be appreciated that the subscription service system may direct the request to any suitable party capable of sending the message . Also in some embodiments the mobile service provider system may automatically generate and send the message or otherwise cause the message to be sent . For example when a predetermined time has passed since the sending of the subscription without having received an exception message from the subscription service system the mobile service provider system may generate and send the message as described herein.

Any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated materials does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment to an embodiment or to various embodiments means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiments is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in various embodiments in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Reference to embodiments is intended to disclose examples rather than limit the claimed invention. While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to several example embodiments it will be understood by persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and details can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

It should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of embodiments of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements such as for example details of system architecture. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these and other elements may be desirable for practice of various aspects of the present embodiments. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of embodiments of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements such as for example details of system architecture. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these and other elements may be desirable for practice of various aspects of the present embodiments. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein.

It can be appreciated that in some embodiments of the present methods and systems disclosed herein a single component can be replaced by multiple components and multiple components replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice the present methods and systems such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Examples presented herein including operational examples are intended to illustrate potential implementations of the present method and system embodiments. It can be appreciated that such examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration. No particular aspect or aspects of the example method product computer readable media and or system embodiments described herein are intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

It will be appreciated that the various components of the environment may be any suitable type of computing device including for example desktop computers laptop computers mobile phones palm top computers personal digital assistants PDA s etc. As used herein a computer computer system computer device or computing device may be for example and without limitation either alone or in combination a personal computer PC server based computer main frame server microcomputer minicomputer laptop personal data assistant PDA cellular phone pager processor including wireless and or wireline varieties thereof and or any other computerized device capable of configuration for processing data for standalone application and or over a networked medium or media. Computers and computer systems disclosed herein may include operatively associated memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing storing and or communicating data. It can be appreciated that such memory can be internal external remote or local with respect to its operatively associated computer or computer system. Memory may also include any means for storing software or other instructions including for example and without limitation a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM extended erasable PROM and or other like computer readable media.

A communication protocol refers to an exchange of data or messages in a known structured format. Specifically a protocol refers to what is being communicated for example the data or message content . Types of protocols include for example networking protocols including network packets and application layer protocols application program interfaces or APIs including API calls remote method invocation RMI and remote procedure call RPC .

Some portions of the above disclosure are presented in terms of methods and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A method is here and generally conceived to be a sequence of actions instructions leading to a desired result. The actions are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. Furthermore it is also convenient at times to refer to certain arrangements of actions requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities as modules or code devices without loss of generality.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the preceding discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or determining or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain aspects of the present invention include process steps and instructions described herein in the form of a method. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of the present invention can be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software can be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by a variety of operating systems.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore the computers and computer systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

The methods and displays presented herein unless indicated otherwise are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the disclosed method actions. The structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the above description. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present invention as described herein and any references above to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of the present invention.

The term computer readable medium as used herein may include for example magnetic and optical memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and writeable varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include non transitory memory storage that can be physical or virtual.

