---

title: Methods and devices for touchscreen eavesdropping prevention
abstract: Touchscreen controllers and associated electronic devices are described which prevent eavesdropping of touchscreen activity. In one aspect, the present disclosure describes a touchscreen controller that includes a touch input interface for connecting to a touch-sensitive overlay of a touchscreen display and a touch output interface. The touch output interface provides an output in dependence on touch input received via the touch input interface. The touchscreen controller further includes an orientation sensor control output interface for connecting to one or more orientation sensors and an embedded processor coupled with the touch input interface, the touch output interface and the orientation sensor control output interface. The embedded processor is configured to generate an interrupt output signal for output on the orientation sensor control output interface. The interrupt output signal is configured to deactivate the orientation sensor for at least a period of time when the touch-sensitive overlay is activated with touch input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09417667&OS=09417667&RS=09417667
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09417667
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130510
---
The present disclosure relates to electronic devices having touchscreens and more particularly to methods and electronic devices which prevent eavesdropping of touchscreen activity.

Electronic devices are often associated with a touchscreen display and one or more sensors such as for example orientation sensor. By way of example an electronic device may include a touchscreen display an accelerometer and a gyroscope.

The inclusion of orientation sensors such as accelerometers and gyroscopes may allow the electronic device to perform any one of a number of orientation dependent functions which would be difficult or impossible for the electronic device to perform without such sensors. For example a display orientation may toggle between a landscape orientation or a portrait orientation depending on the physical orientation of the electronic device.

While the inclusion of sensors on an electronic device permits a number enhanced functions to be performed on the electronic device the inclusion of such sensors may also result in a security vulnerability. More specifically such sensors may be used to eavesdrop on touchscreen activity. That is on touchscreen based electronic devices having orientation sensors it may be possible to analyze data from the orientation sensors to determine touchscreen activity. For example using gyroscope and accelerometer data it is possible to determine with a high degree of accuracy the location on a touchscreen display that is being activated. Since the gyroscope and accelerometer data may be used to determine the location of a touchscreen input a key logger could for example be deployed surreptitiously. That is current electronic devices may be susceptible to a virus which determines a location of a touch screen input and maps that location to known locations of letters associated with a virtual keyboard to log keystrokes.

In one aspect the present disclosure describes a touchscreen controller. The touchscreen controller includes a touch input interface for connecting to a touch sensitive overlay of a touchscreen display and a touch output interface. The touch output interface provides an output in dependence on touch input received via the touch input interface. The touchscreen controller further includes an orientation sensor control output interface for connecting to one or more orientation sensors and an embedded processor coupled with the touch input interface the touch output interface and the orientation sensor control output interface. The embedded processor is configured to generate an interrupt output signal for output on the orientation sensor control output interface. The interrupt output signal is configured to deactivate the orientation sensor for at least a period of time when the touch sensitive overlay is activated with touch input.

In another aspect an electronic device is described. The electronic device includes a touchscreen controller. The touchscreen controller includes a touch input interface for connecting to a touch sensitive overlay of a touchscreen display and a touch output interface. The touch output interface provides an output in dependence on touch input received via the touch input interface. The touchscreen controller further includes an orientation sensor control output interface for connecting to one or more orientation sensors and an embedded processor coupled with the touch input interface the touch output interface and the orientation sensor control output interface. The embedded processor is configured to generate an interrupt output signal for output on the orientation sensor control output interface. The interrupt output signal is configured to deactivate the orientation sensor for at least a period of time when the touch sensitive overlay is activated with touch input. The electronic device further includes a display and a touch sensitive overlay associated with the display. The touch sensitive overlay connects to the touch input interface of the touchscreen controller. The electronic device further includes a main processor having an input connected to the touch output interface of the touchscreen controller and an orientation sensor having an orientation sensor output interface coupled to the main processor and an orientation sensor control input interface connected to the orientation sensor control output interface of the touchscreen controller. The orientation sensor is configured to selectively enable the orientation sensor output interface in dependence on a signal received from the orientation sensor control input interface.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

As will be described in greater detail below at least some example embodiments of the present disclosure describe electronic devices methods communication systems and computer readable mediums which include both a touchscreen display and orientation sensors but which prevent eavesdropping of touchscreen input using the orientation sensors.

The electronic device may be any electronic device having a touchscreen including for example a smartphone tablet computer wearable computer such as a watch a mobile telephone or PDA personal digital assistant or a computer system. Other types of electronic devices apart from those specifically listed above are also possible.

A smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example a smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

A tablet computer which may also be referred to as a tablet is a mobile computer which is generally larger than a mobile phone such as a smartphone or personal digital assistant. Many mobile phones or personal digital assistants are designed to be pocket sized. That is mobile phones or personal digital assistants are generally small enough to be carried by a person easily often in a shirt or pant pocket while tablet computers are larger and may not fit within pant pockets. For example many tablet computers have a height with is seven inches or more.

Accordingly the electronic device may take a variety of forms. An example of one such electronic device will now be discussed.

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device is illustrated. In the example the electronic device is a smartphone.

The electronic device includes a housing which houses internal components of the electronic device such as a main processor one or more orientation sensors etc. Example internal components will be discussed below with reference to .

The electronic device includes a touchscreen display . The touchscreen display acts as both an output interface and an input interface . More particularly the touchscreen display includes a display which acts as an output interface and touch sensitive overlay which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone. That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes a speaker . In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front side of the smartphone.

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other example embodiments the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some example embodiments the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The example smartphone also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the touchscreen display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates a block diagram of an example electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied.

In the illustrated example embodiment the electronic device is a communication device and more particularly is a mobile communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. For example the electronic device may be a smartphone of the type described with reference to . It will however be appreciated that the electronic device may take other forms including any one of the forms listed above.

The electronic device includes a main processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The main processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The main processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display included in a touchscreen display and in at least some embodiments a speaker one or more input interfaces including a touch sensitive overlay associated with the touchscreen display and in at least some embodiments a camera and or a microphone . The main processor is also communicably coupled with one or more one or more orientation sensors memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port the wireless communication subsystem a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

As noted above the electronic device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive overlay which is connected to a touchscreen controller and which overlays an associated display . The touch sensitive overlay and the touchscreen controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the main processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the touchscreen controller .

The touch sensitive overlay may have a size which corresponds to the size of the display . More particularly the touchscreen overlay may be sized so that it covers the entirety of the display . In at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may have a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame which surrounds the display . In such example embodiments the frame may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend to one or more of the sides of the electronic device .

As noted above in some example embodiments the electronic device may include a communication subsystem which allows the electronic device to communicate over a wireless network . The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which electronic device is intended to operate.

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device also includes one or more orientation sensors . The orientation sensors are configured to generate orientation data in dependence on the orientation and or movement of the electronic device . In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device includes two orientation sensors a first orientation sensor and a second orientation sensor . In some embodiments one of these orientation sensors is an accelerometer and the other of these orientation sensors is a gyroscope. For example in some embodiments the first orientation sensor is an accelerometer and the second orientation sensor is a gyroscope. In other embodiments the first orientation sensor is a gyroscope and the second orientation sensor is an accelerometer. The first orientation sensor and or the second orientation sensor may be orientation sensors of other types in other embodiments.

As noted above in at least some embodiments one of the orientations sensors is a gyroscope. A gyroscope measures rotational velocity of the gyroscope. Since the gyroscope is integrated within the electronic device e.g. within the housing of and is fixedly connected to the electronic device the gyroscope effectively measures rotational velocity of the electronic device .

The gyroscope contains one or more sensing axis. In some embodiments the gyroscope includes three orthogonal sensing axes which may be referred to as Gx to represent the gyroscope s x sensing axis Gy to represent the gyroscope s y sensing axis and Gz to represent the gyroscope s z sensing axis . Each sensing axis is orthogonal to the other sensing axes. For example the x sensing axis Gx is orthogonal to the y and z sensing axes Gy and Gz respectively the y sensing axis Gy is orthogonal to the x and z sensing axes Gx and Gz respectively and the z sensing axis Gz is orthogonal to the x and y sensing axes Gx and Gy respectively .

The gyroscope may produce a gyroscope reading for each of the sensing axes Gx Gy Gz. For example a gyroscope reading wx may be produced by the gyroscope based on gyroscope measurements associated with the x sensing axis such as a rotation about the x sensing axis a gyroscope reading wy may be produced by the gyroscope based on gyroscope measurements associated with the y sensing axis such as a rotation about the y sensing axis and a gyroscope reading wz may be produced by the gyroscope based on gyroscope measurements associated with the z sensing axis such as a rotation about the z sensing axis . These gyroscope readings collectively form the gyroscope output which may be referred to more generically as orientation sensor output or orientation data . That is the gyroscope output is an electronic signal which is representative of the gyroscope readings wx wy wz for the sensing axes Gx Gy Gz of the gyroscope. The electronic signal may for example provide the gyroscope readings wx wy wz for the sensing axes Gx Gy Gz of the gyroscope as measures of an amount of rotation per unit time about each sensing axis. For example the gyroscope may produce an output in terms of radians per second or degrees per second. The gyroscope output may in some embodiments be an analog output. In other embodiments the gyroscope output may be digital. A gyroscope reading captured at a point in time may be referred to as a gyroscope sample. Such samples may be obtained for example at regular intervals provided the gyroscope is enabled the enabling and disabling of the gyroscope will be discussed in greater detail below .

The gyroscope output may separate the gyroscope readings for each sensing axis at a signal level or at an output interface level or both. For example in some embodiments the gyroscope may have a separate output interface such as a separate pad or pin associated with each sensing axis. Each output interface associated with a sensing axis may provide an output signal representing gyroscope readings for its associated sensing axis thus separating the gyroscope readings for the sensing axes at an output interface level . In other example embodiments a common output interface such as a common pad or pin may be associated with a plurality of sensing axes. That is gyroscope readings for a plurality of sensing axes may be provided on a common output interface such as a common pad or pin . In at least some embodiments gyroscope output may be provided to the main processor or to another application specific processor via an Inter Integrated Circuit I2C connection associated with that processor. The output interface that is provided on the gyroscope to connect to the processor to provide gyroscope output to the processor may be referred to as an orientation sensor output interface .

In some embodiments the gyroscope may be a digital gyroscope provided in an integrated circuit IC having a memory such as Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM or flash memory analog to digital A D converter and a controller such as a suitably programmed microprocessor or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . The IC may provide an industry standard interface such as an SPI Serial Peripheral Interface or I2C Inter Integrated Circuit interface for connecting to a printed circuit board PCB of the electronic device .

The sensing axes Gx Gy Gz of the gyroscope may be aligned with the form factor of the electronic device . For example the axes may be aligned such that when the electronic device is oriented on a flat surface such as a table the x and y sensing axes are parallel to the table and the z sensing axis is perpendicular to the table. It is contemplated that the sensing axes x y z may be aligned with different features of the electronic device in other embodiments.

As further noted above in at least some embodiments one of the orientation sensors may be an accelerometer. An accelerometer is a device that generates an output signal in dependence on the acceleration of the accelerometer. That is the accelerometer produces an output which reflects the acceleration of the accelerometer. More particularly the accelerometer may generate an output which specifies the magnitude and or direction of acceleration. In the embodiment illustrated since the accelerometer is integrated within the electronic device e.g. within the housing of and is fixedly connected to the electronic device the accelerometer effectively measures the acceleration of the electronic device .

In at least some embodiments the accelerometer output may be provided to the main processor or to another application specific processor via an Inter Integrated Circuit I2C connection associated with that processor.

In some embodiments the accelerometer may be a digital accelerometer provided in an integrated circuit IC having a memory such as Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM or flash memory analog to digital A D converter and a controller such as a suitably programmed microprocessor or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . The IC may provide an industry standard interface such as an SPI Serial Peripheral Interface or I2C Inter Integrated Circuit interface for connecting to a printed circuit board PCB of the electronic device . The output interface that is provided on the accelerometer to connect to the processor to provide accelerometer output to the processor may be referred to as an orientation sensor output interface . This output interface may for example be a pad or pin or another type of electrical connector.

The accelerometer defines one or more sensing axis. The accelerometer may for example include three orthogonal sensing axes which may be referred to as Ax to represent the accelerometer s x sensing axis Ay to represent the accelerometer s y sensing axis and Az to represent the accelerometer s z sensing axis . Each sensing axis is orthogonal to the other sensing axes. For example the x sensing axis Ax is orthogonal to the y and z sensing axes Ay and Az respectively the y sensing axis Ay is orthogonal to the x and z sensing axes Ax and Az respectively and the z sensing axis Az is orthogonal to the x and y sensing axes Ax and Ay respectively .

The accelerometer may produce an accelerometer reading for each of the sensing axes. For example an accelerometer reading ax may be produced by the accelerometer based on accelerometer measurements associated with the x sensing axis such as an acceleration along the x sensing axis an accelerometer reading ay may be produced by the accelerometer based on accelerometer measurements associated with the y sensing axis such as an acceleration along the y sensing axis and an accelerometer reading az may be produced by the accelerometer based on accelerometer measurements associated with the z sensing axis such as an acceleration along the z sensing axis . These accelerometer readings collectively form the accelerometer output. That is the accelerometer output is an electronic signal which is representative of the accelerometer readings ax ay az for the sensing axes Ax Ay Az of the accelerometer. The accelerometer readings with respect to each of the three axes Ax Ay Az of the accelerometer can be taken at intervals which may be predetermined. The intervals for when accelerometer readings can be taken with respect to each of the three axes Ax Ay Az can each be independent of the others.

The sensing axes Ax Ay Az of the accelerometer may be aligned with the form factor of the electronic device . For example the x and y sensing axes Ax and Ay may be generally parallel to the front face of the electronic device and the z sensing axis Az may be generally perpendicular to the front face of the electronic device. One or more of the sensing axes Ax Ay Az of the accelerometer may be aligned with one or more of the sensing axes Gx Gy Gz of the gyroscope.

Thus the orientation sensors may generate orientation data based on movement and or orientation of the electronic device . An accelerometer may generate accelerometer data and a gyroscope may generate gyroscope data. This data may be output from the orientation sensors via associated orientation sensor output interfaces e.g. to the main processor provided the orientation sensors are enabled.

In at least some embodiments one or more of the orientation sensors includes an orientation sensor control input interface . In the example illustrated the first orientation sensor includes the orientation sensor control input interface . The orientation sensor control input interface is an electrical connector such as a pad or a pin through which a control signal may be received. The orientation sensor control input interface may be used to control the state of the orientation sensor. More particularly the orientation sensor control input interface may be used to toggle the orientation sensor between enabled and disabled states. That is a signal of one type received at the orientation sensor control input interface may instruct the orientation sensor to enter the disabled state such a signal may be referred to as an interrupt signal and a signal of another type or the lack of a signal may instruct the orientation sensor to enter the enabled state.

Accordingly an orientation sensor having the orientation sensor control input interface may be configured to selectively enable its orientation sensor output interface in dependence on the signal received from the orientation sensor control input interface. More particularly the signal received via the orientation sensor control input interface toggles the orientation sensor between multiple states in an enabled state the orientation sensor operates normally generating an orientation output at the orientation sensor output interface based on periodic measurements obtained at the sensing axes of the orientation sensor. In contrast in a disabled state the orientation sensor does not operate normally. That is at least some orientation data is either not generated while the orientation sensor is disabled or it is generated but not output. During the disabled state at least some orientation data that would have been output in the enabled state is not output and is irretrievably lost to components e.g. the main processor connected to the orientation sensor output interface .

Accordingly in at least some embodiments during the disabled state no record of orientation data is maintained by the orientation sensor. That is during the disabled state the orientation sensor does not simply log orientation data until the orientation sensor is once again enabled orientation data is either not generated or it is generated but is not output and is not stored in memory for later output. During the disabled state at least some orientation data which would have otherwise been output i.e. had the orientation sensor been enabled is irretrievably lost.

The orientation sensor control input interface is coupled to the touchscreen controller which is included as part of the touchscreen display . That is a connection exists between the orientation sensor control input interface of the orientation sensor and an orientation sensor control output interface of the touchscreen controller . The orientation sensor control output interface may for example be a pad or pin or an electrical connector of another type which is included in the touchscreen controller .

As illustrated in the touchscreen controller may also include other input and output interfaces in addition to the orientation sensor control output interface . These input and output interfaces may also be pads or pins or connectors of other types.

In the example illustrated the touchscreen controller includes a touch input interface for connecting to the touch sensitive overlay of the touchscreen display . More particularly the touch sensitive overlay generates a signal in dependence on touch input received at the touch sensitive overlay . The signal depends on the location of touch based contact on the touch sensitive overlay. This signal is provided to the touchscreen controller via the touch input interface . In at least some embodiments the touch input interface of the touchscreen controller may connect to the touch sensitive overlay using a ribbon connector.

Similarly in some embodiments a display interface may connect the touchscreen controller to the display . It will be appreciated that in other embodiments the display may not connect to the touchscreen controller and the display may connect to the main processor without engaging the touchscreen controller .

In at least some embodiments the touchscreen controller includes one or more touch output interfaces. The touch output interfaces provide an output to the main processor in dependence on touch input received via the touch input interface . That is the touchscreen controller is configured to generate one or more signals which may be output via the touch output interface s based on touch input received via the touch sensitive overlay . In the embodiment illustrated two touch output interfaces are included a touch output data interface and a touch output interrupt interface . The touch output data interface may be a serial interface which provides a signal to the main processor which indicates the location associated with a touch input. That is the signal indicates the location on the touch sensitive overlay where an input was received.

The touch output interrupt interface may also provide a signal to the main processor that is related to touch input received at the touch sensitive overlay but the signal may contain less information than the signal provided via the touch output data interface . While the touch output data interface provides data which indicates the location associated with a touch input the touch output interrupt interface may simply indicate whether the touch sensitive overlay is engaged activated. For example the touch output interrupt interface may provide a binary signal which has two possible states a first state which indicates that the touch sensitive overlay is not engaged and a second state which may be referred to as an interrupt state which indicates that the touch sensitive overlay is engaged. For example when the touch sensitive overlay is engaged a signal having the interrupt state may be output to the touch output interrupt interface to effectively instruct the main processor to begin monitoring the touch output data interface for a signal. For example if the main processor is in a sleep state which may be a low power state in which the main processor does not analyze input received from the touch output data interface it may wake up and begin monitoring e.g. analyzing the touch output data interface .

Any one or more of the interfaces described above may be implemented as a pin pad or other electrical contact. More particularly the touchscreen controller may include a housing not shown which houses internal components of the touchscreen controller such as for example an embedded processor . Any one or more of the interfaces described above may be an electrical contact which is externally exposed through an opening in the housing. For example the orientation sensor control output interface may be externally exposed through an opening in the housing.

The touchscreen controller includes an embedded processor . The embedded processor is a processor which is separate and distinct from the main processor . The embedded processor is configured to control the state of at least one orientation sensor based on touch input received via the touch sensitive overlay . More particularly the embedded processor is configured to toggle one or more of the orientation sensors between the enabled and disabled states based on the touch input. In the embodiment illustrated in the embedded processor controls the state of the first orientation sensor but not the second orientation sensor . However as will be explained in greater below with reference to in other embodiments the embedded processor may control the state of more than one orientation sensor 

To place the first orientation sensor in a disabled state the embedded processor generates an interrupt output signal and provides that signal to the orientation sensor control output interface . In order to do so the embedded processor is coupled with the orientation sensor control output interface . For example the orientation sensor control output interface may be a pin of the embedded processor .

The embedded processor is configured to generate a signal for output via the orientation sensor control output interface based on the state of the touch sensitive overlay . To determine the state of the touch sensitive overlay the embedded processor is coupled with the touch input interface . For example the touch input interface may be a pin of the embedded processor .

The embedded processor may also be coupled with one or more of the touch output interface s in at least some embodiments. For example the embedded processor may be coupled with the touch output data interface and or the touch output interrupt interface and may generate signals for output via these interfaces.

Accordingly the embedded processor is in at least some embodiments configured to generate an interrupt signal for output on the orientation sensor control output interface . The interrupt signal is configured to deactivate the orientation sensor connected to the orientation sensor control output interface for at least a period of time when the touch sensitive overlay is activated with touch input.

In at least some embodiments the touchscreen controller monitors for new activations of the touch sensitive overlay . A new activation of the touch sensitive overlay may be characterized by a transition from a state where the touch sensitive overlay is not activated to a state where the touch sensitive overlay is activated. That is a new activation occurs when a finger or other object moves from a position in which it is not in contact with the touch sensitive overlay to a position in which it is in contact with the touch sensitive overlay. By way of example a new activation may occur when a key associated with a virtual keyboard displayed on the display is contacted with the finger. In pressing the key in this manner the electronic device may be moved slightly and such movement may be reflected in the orientation sensor data generated by the orientation sensors if the orientation sensors were allowed to operate in the enabled state. However in order to prevent such orientation data from being observed at the main processor and being used to eavesdrop on the touchscreen activity in response to detecting a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay the embedded processor may output a signal which causes the orientation sensor connected to the orientation sensor control output interface to enter the disabled state.

When the orientation sensor is in this disabled state the output of the orientation sensor is affected as described in greater detail below . That is the orientation sensor ceases to output orientation data and the main processor is prevented from obtaining orientation data which would be obtainable if the orientation sensor were not operating in the disabled state. Thus an application running on the main processor is prevented from obtaining at least some orientation data.

In order to eavesdrop on touchscreen activity using orientation sensors i.e. to determine the location of a touch based input based on orientation sensor data great precision of orientation sensor data may be required. By preventing the main processor from obtaining some of the orientation sensor data that is generated at approximately the same time that the touch based input is received such precision is sacrificed making it difficult or impossible to accurately predict the location of the touch based input.

Accordingly in at least some embodiments the touchscreen controller is used to control the state of the orientation sensor based on the touch input received at the touch sensitive overlay . By utilizing the touchscreen controller to control the state of the orientation sensor based on the touch input the example electronic device may be less susceptible to a software based attack than if a similar method were to be implemented on the main processor of the electronic device . That is while a virus may infect the main processor the touchscreen controller is much less likely to be infected. Thus there may be a reduced risk that a virus may alter the method of disabling the orientation sensor to prevent eavesdropping when the method of disabling the orientation sensor is provided on the touchscreen controller.

Furthermore by utilizing the touchscreen controller to control the state of the orientation sensor based on the touch screen data the orientation sensor may be disabled faster than if the main processor were to control the state of the orientation sensor based on the touch screen data. The orientation sensor data that is generated at approximately the same time as the touch input or immediately after the touch input may be highly valuable when attempting to predict the location of the touch input. Since the touchscreen controller receives the touch input from the touch sensitive overlay before the main processor the touchscreen controller is able to disable the orientation quickly. That is the orientation sensor may be disabled very soon after a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay is detected. By disabling the orientation sensor at this time orientation data that would be highly valuable for eavesdropping purposes is prevented from being delivered to the main processor .

This method of disabling the orientation sensor that may be implemented by the embedded processor will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

The electronic device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video.

In some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device also includes a power source such as a battery . The battery may be one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices . In at least some example embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information required by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The main processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as for example third party applications.

The software applications on the electronic device may include a range of applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the main processor at runtime.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates a further example embodiment of the electronic device . The block diagram of includes many of the features described above with reference to . The description of these features will not be repeated at length.

As illustrated in in at least some embodiments the orientation sensor control output interface of the touchscreen controller may connect to more than one orientation sensor . In the example illustrated the orientation sensor control output interface is connected to both the first orientation sensor and the second orientation sensor . This is in contrast to the electronic device illustrated in in which the orientation sensor control output interface is connected to a single orientation sensor.

As noted above in the discussion of the first orientation sensor includes an orientation sensor control input interface which is connected to the orientation sensor control output interface of the touchscreen controller . As also noted above the first orientation sensor is configured to selectively enable or disable the first orientation sensor based on input received at the orientation sensor control input interface . Thus the touchscreen controller enables or disables the first orientation sensor . As noted above this selective enabling disabling is based on activity detected at the touch sensitive overlay . More particularly the first orientation sensor may be disabled when a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay is detected. As noted in the discussion of above a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay may be characterized by a transition from a state where the touch sensitive overlay is not activated to a state where the touch sensitive overlay is activated. Since a new activation causes a movement of the electronic device which may be reflected in the orientation data produced by an orientation sensor that is enabled on the electronic device the first orientation sensor may be briefly disabled in response to detecting a new activation.

In the embodiment of the second orientation sensor also includes an orientation sensor control input interface which is connected to the orientation sensor control output interface of the touchscreen controller . The second orientation sensor is configured to respond to input received at the orientation sensor control input interface in a manner that is similar to the first orientation sensor s response to input received at its orientation sensor control input interface . More particularly the second orientation sensor is configured to selectively enable or disable the second orientation sensor based on input received at the orientation sensor control input interface .

The orientation sensor control input interface is an electrical connector such as a pad or a pin through which a control signal may be received. The orientation sensor control input interface may be used to control the state of the second orientation sensor . More particularly the orientation sensor control input interface may be used to toggle the second orientation sensor between enabled and disabled states. That is a signal of one type received at the orientation sensor control input interface may instruct the second orientation sensor to enter the disabled state such a signal may be referred to as an interrupt signal and a signal of another type or the lack of a signal may instruct the second orientation sensor to enter the enabled state.

Since the touchscreen controller is coupled with the orientation sensor control input interface of the second orientation sensor the touchscreen controller enables or disables the second orientation sensor . As noted above this selective enabling disabling is based on activity detected at the touch sensitive overlay . More particularly the second orientation sensor may be disabled when a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay is detected. As noted in the discussion of above a new activation of the touchscreen may be characterized by a transition from a state where the touch sensitive overlay is not activated to a state where the touch sensitive overlay is activated.

By disabling both the first orientation sensor and the second orientation sensor the amount of orientation sensor data that is available to the main processor that may relate to movement caused by a touch input is reduced. That is in the embodiment of the main processor receives less orientation data than the main processor receives in the embodiment of since two orientation sensors are disabled in the embodiment of while only one orientation sensor is disabled in the embodiment of . Since the main processor in the electronic device of receives less orientation data that may reflect movement associated with the touch input the task of predicting the location of a touch input is rendered more difficult and less precise for a possible virus deployed on the main processor.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates a timing diagram illustrating the relationship between input at the touch sensitive overlay and the state of the orientation sensor coupled to the touch screen controller . More particularly the touchscreen controller of or may be configured to selectively enable or disable the orientation sensor to implement the timing diagram of . As noted above the embedded processor of the touchscreen controller may be configured to operate according to the timing diagram of .

Two state representations are illustrated in . These include the touch sensitive overlay state and the orientation sensor state . The touch sensitive overlay state illustrates how the touch sensitive overlay may be activated or not activated. The not activated state occurs when contact between an object such as a finger or other detectable object is not reflected in the output of the touch sensitive overlay . More particularly during the not activated state a finger or other detectable object is not in contact with the touch sensitive overlay and thus the output from the touch sensitive overlay indicates that there is no contact between the finger or other detectable object and the touch sensitive overlay . In contrast during the activated state contact of an object with the touch sensitive overlay occurs and is reflected in the output of the touch sensitive overlay . For example during the activated state a finger or other detectable object is in contact with the touch sensitive overlay . The embedded processor is configured to determine whether the touch sensitive overlay is in the activated or not activated state based on input received via the touch input interface of the touchscreen controller .

The touchscreen display may be configured to pass touchscreen data to the main processor based on data from the touch sensitive overlay . Accordingly the state of a touch output of the touchscreen display e.g. to the main processor may correspond to the state of the touch sensitive display. For example when the touch sensitive overlay is activated e.g. through contact with an object one or more touch outputs associated with the touchscreen display may provide a signal to the main processor which indicates that the touch sensitive overlay is activated. For example a touch output data interface and or a touch output interrupt interface which connects the main processor to the touchscreen display may provide data to the main processor which indicates that the touch sensitive overlay is activated. For example the touch output data interface may provide a signal to the main processor which indicates the location associated with a touch input. Similarly the touch output interrupt interface may provide a binary signal which has two possible states a first state which indicates that the touch sensitive overlay is not engaged and a second state which may be referred to as an interrupt state which indicates that the touch sensitive overlay is engaged.

Since the state of the touch output is based on the state of the touch sensitive overlay the touch sensitive overlay state of may reflect the state associated with one or more touch outputs such as for example the touch output data interface and or the touch output interrupt interface . That is during periods where illustrates the touch sensitive overlay state as being in a not activated state these touch outputs indicate to the main processor that the touch sensitive overlay is not activated i.e. is not in contact with a detectable object . Similarly during periods where the touch sensitive overlay state is shown as activated these touch outputs indicate to the main processor that the touch sensitive overlay is activated. Thus in at least some embodiments the touch sensitive overlay state of represents both the state of the touch sensitive overlay and the state of an output interface associated with the touchscreen display which connects to the main processor .

The orientation sensor state represents an output state associated with one or more orientation sensors. This output state may be toggled between an enabled state which is abbreviated as on in and a disabled state which is abbreviated as off in . These states are described above with reference to and . As noted above during the disabled state at least some orientation data that would have been output in the enabled state is not output and is irretrievably lost to components e.g. the main processor connected to the orientation sensor output interface . As also noted above the touchscreen controller is used to control the state of one or more orientation sensor by providing a signal to the orientation sensor s .

The orientation sensor state of may represent the state of a single orientation sensor or multiple orientation sensors. As noted in the discussion of and the touchscreen controller may control the state of a single orientation sensor as illustrated in where only a first orientation sensor is controlled or a plurality of orientation sensors as illustrated in where a first orientation sensor and a second orientation sensor are both controlled . Thus in some embodiments the orientation sensor state of represents the state of a single orientation sensor as in the case of the embodiment of and in some embodiments the orientation sensor state of represents the state of multiple orientation sensors as in the case of the embodiment of .

The ordinary operating state of the orientation sensor is the on state. That is in ordinary operation the orientation sensor outputs orientation data based on periodic samples obtained at the orientation sensor. Accordingly at time t0 the orientation sensor state is on. At this time the touch sensitive overlay state is not activated. That is no detectable object is touching the touch sensitive overlay .

Then at time t1 a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay is observed. That is the touch sensitive overlay transitions from a state where the touch sensitive overlay is not activated to a state where the touch sensitive overlay is activated. This transition is detected at the touchscreen controller e.g. by the embedded processor and the touchscreen controller then switches the state of one or more orientation sensors. More particularly at t1 the orientation sensor state transitions to the off state.

In at least some embodiments the orientation sensor s are only left in the off state for a predetermined period of time . That is when placing the orientation sensor in the off state the touchscreen controller may initiate a timer. When the timer indicates that the predetermined period of time has elapsed the touchscreen controller may switch the orientation sensor back to the on state. In the example illustrated this transition back to the on state occurs at time t2. In the example illustrated at time t2 the touch sensitive overlay remains activated until time t3.

Then at time t4 a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay is observed. In response to this new activation the orientation sensor s are again placed in the off state. When this happens a timer may again be initiated at the touchscreen controller . However at t5 the touch sensitive overlay transitions back to the not activated state e.g. the finger that was activating the touch sensitive overlay may be removed before the predetermined period of time has elapsed. In response the touchscreen controller may switch the orientation sensor back to the on state at t5.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates a method for preventing eavesdropping of touchscreen activities. The method may in at less some embodiments be implemented on a touchscreen controller such as the touchscreen controller of . For example an embedded processor of the touchscreen controller may perform the method . In some such embodiments the embedded processor may be associated with processor executable instructions which may configure the embedded processor to perform the method . Such processor executable instructions may for example be stored on a memory associated with the embedded processor .

At an activation of a touch sensitive overlay is detected when an object such as a finger comes into contact with the touch sensitive overlay. More particularly a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay is detected. The new activation is characterized by a transition from a state where the touch sensitive overlay is not activated to a state where the touch sensitive overlay is activated. That is a new activation occurs when an object is placed in contact with the touch sensitive overlay following a period when no objects were in contact with the touch sensitive overlay.

In response to detecting the activation of the touch sensitive overlay at an interrupt output signal is generated and provided to the orientation sensor control output interface for output to one or more orientation sensors . The interrupt output signal is configured to deactivate the orientation sensor for at least a period of time when the touch sensitive overlay is activated with touch input. That is the interrupt output signal places the connected orientation sensor in the disabled state also referred to herein as an off state or not activated state .

Accordingly the interrupt output signal is provided to the orientation sensor control output interface which provides the signal to the orientation sensor. As will be explained below with reference to and the interrupt output signal may be provided to the orientation sensor control output interface for a predetermined period of time .

The touchscreen controller may also provide at output signals to one or more touch output interfaces such as a touch output data interface and or a touch output interrupt interface . The output signals relate to the touch sensitive overlay. More particularly in response to detecting an activation of the touch sensitive overlay the output signal s provided to the one or more touch output interfaces indicate that the touch sensitive overlay is activated.

As noted in the discussion of above the touch output data interface may provide a signal to the main processor which indicates the location associated with a touch input.

The touch output interrupt interface may also provide a signal to the main processor that is related to touch input received at the touch sensitive overlay but the signal may contain less information than the signal provided via the touch output data interface . While the touch output data interface provides data which indicates the location associated with a touch input the touch output interrupt interface may simply indicate whether the touch sensitive overlay is engaged activated.

As illustrated in in at least some embodiments step occurs after step . More particularly in at least some embodiments the touchscreen controller is configured to provide the interrupt output signal to the orientation sensor control output interface before providing an output signal to the orientation touch interface that indicates that the touch sensitive overlay is activated. That is before the main processor is able to detect that a touch has occurred an orientation sensor is instructed to switch to the disabled state.

The touch output interface continues to output a signal that indicates that the touch sensitive overlay is activated until the touch sensitive overlay is no longer activated which may be determined at . When the touch sensitive overlay is no longer activated the touchscreen controller ceases at providing an output to the main processor which indicates that the touch sensitive overlay is activated. For example in some embodiments when a finger is removed from the touch sensitive overlay the touch output interfaces such as a touch output data interface and or a touch output interrupt interface may output no signal or may output a signal which indicates to the main processor that the touch sensitive overlay is not activated.

When the touch sensitive overlay is no longer activated the orientation sensor control output interface may at cease providing an orientation sensor interrupt output. That is the touchscreen controller may switch the orientation sensor back to the enabled state.

In at least some embodiments the orientation sensor may also be switched back to the enabled state if it has been in the disabled state for at least a predetermined period of time . More particularly when the interrupt output signal is provided to the orientation sensor control output to switch the orientation sensor to the off disabled state a timer may be initiated on the touchscreen controller at . At the touchscreen controller determines whether the timer has expired. The timer expires when a predetermined period of time has elapsed. Accordingly the touchscreen controller determines whether the orientation sensor has been in the off state for at least the predetermined period of time. If the predetermined period of time has not elapsed then the orientation sensor is left in the off state. For example the interrupt output signal may be continued to be provided to the orientation sensor. However following the predetermined period of time i.e. when the timer has expired at by reaching the predetermined period of time the touchscreen controller ceases at to provide the interrupt output signal to the orientation sensor control output interface. That is the orientation sensor is switched back to the on state.

The predetermined period of time may be selected to be sufficiently long so that a precise orientation or movement of the electronic device may not be determined but sufficiently short so that a more imprecise orientation or movement of the electronic device may be obtained. Since great precision of orientation movement information is required in order to predict the location of a touch based on orientation data but such precision may not be required for other purposes such as switching between portrait and landscape mode a predetermined period of time may be selected which renders it difficult or impossible to eavesdrop on touchscreen activity but which allows other orientation movement dependent functions to be performed. By way of example in some embodiments the predetermined period of time is in the range of 10 ms to 100 ms. In some embodiments the predetermined period of time may be in the range of 40 ms to 60 ms. In some embodiments the predetermined period of time may be approximately 50 ms.

Thus in at least some embodiments the orientation sensor may be switched back to the on state when either 1 it has been in the off state for at least a predetermined period of time or 2 the touch sensitive overlay is no longer activated. In at least some embodiments whichever one of these conditions occurs first causes the orientation sensor to switch back to the on state.

At some point after the orientation sensor is switched back to the on state a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay may again be detected. That is after ceasing to provide the interrupt output signal the touchscreen controller may detect a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay at . The new activation is characterized by a transition from a state where the touch sensitive overlay is not activated to a state where the touch sensitive overlay is activated. In response to detecting such a new activation steps of the method may be repeated. For example the interrupt output signal may at again be provided to the orientation sensor control output interface. Thus in at least some embodiments the interrupt output signal may be provided to the orientation sensor in response to detecting a new activation of the touch sensitive overlay.

While the present disclosure is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present disclosure is also directed to various apparatus such as a handheld electronic device including components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present disclosure.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu Ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various example embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative embodiments included of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative embodiments included of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

