---

title: Stabilizing shooting rest apparatus and method
abstract: Disclosed herein is a stabilizing shooting rest that includes a base attachable to the belt of a wearer. The stabilizing shooting rest further includes a telescopic elongated member having a proximate end attached to the base and extending to a distal end, the telescopic elongated member attaching to the base such that the telescopic elongated member is movable about the base with at least two rotational degrees of freedom. The stabilizing shooting rest further includes an arm rest at the distal end of the telescopic elongated member, the arm rest configured to stabilize a desired portion of a rear arm of the wearer while the wearer is shooting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08826581&OS=08826581&RS=08826581
owner: 
number: 08826581
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130823
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 706 445 filed Sep. 27 2012 entitled STABILIZING SHOOTING REST APPARATUS AND METHOD.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to shooting stability. More particularly the subject matter relates to a stabilizing shooting rest apparatus and method for aiding a shooter that is aiming at a particular target and discharging a firearm or crossbow with the intent of its projectile making contact with and accurately hitting that particular target.

Stationing and stabilizing a firearm or crossbow at the time of aiming and discharging is critical to the projectile hitting its intended target and or maintaining a tight group about the bull s eye. When a shooter is aiming a firearm or crossbow they typically concentrate on centering and holding the firearm or crossbow sights on the target. The slightest wavering of the firearm or crossbow while it is being aimed and fired will have an adverse effect on the performance and outcome of the shot. Perfectly aligning the firearm or crossbow sight and maintaining this position is crucial to achieving the desired accuracy. The consequence of any movement during the aiming and firing procedure will result in a deficiency in the projectile s accuracy.

There have been several inventions designed to address and achieve better projectile accuracy. In every case of prior art the attempts to resolve or at least minimize firearm or crossbow movement at the time of aiming and firing addresses the stabilizing or steadying of the front portion that being the fore end or barrel end of the firearm or crossbow stock. However each prior art attempts to minimize the wavering and movement of a firearm or crossbow by either focusing exclusively on supporting and stabilizing the shooters arm which controls the front portion of the firearm or crossbow or by allowing a stabilizing apparatus to actually make contact with the front portion fore end barrel or any other forward physical part of the firearm or crossbow while attempting to support and minimize the firearm or crossbow s instability wavering and movement.

Thus a stabilizing shooting rest and method of use thereof that focuses on maintaining stability of the rear end of the firearm or crossbow stock by supporting the arm which steadies and controls the butt end of the firearm or crossbow stock and by stationing the arm which is steadying the hand which features the shooter s trigger finger would be well received in the art.

According to a first described aspect a stabilizing shooting rest comprises a base attachable to the belt of a wearer a telescopic elongated member having a proximate end attached to the base and extending to a distal end the telescopic elongated member attaching to the base such that the telescopic elongated member is movable about the base with at least two rotational degrees of freedom and an arm rest at the distal end of the telescopic elongated member the arm rest configured to stabilize a desired portion of a rear arm of the wearer while the wearer is shooting.

According to a second described aspect a method of stabilizing a firearm or crossbow comprises providing a stabilizing shooting rest that includes base portion attachable to the belt of a wearer telescopic elongated member having a proximate end attached to the base portion and extending to a distal end the telescopic elongated member attaching to the base portion such that the telescopic elongated member is movable about the base portion with at least two rotational degrees of freedom and an arm rest portion at the distal end of the telescopic elongated member the arm rest portion configured to stabilize desired portion of a rear arm of the wearer while the wearer is shooting resting a rear arm or elbow on the arm rest portion of the stabilizing shooting rest and holding a rear end of a firearm or crossbow with the rear arm.

According to a third described aspect a stabilizing shooting rest comprises a base attachable to the belt of a wearer wherein the base includes a top member wherein the base and the top member each extend from a first end to a second end wherein a first portion of the base extends from each of the first end and the second end away from the top member the first portion extending to a middle point located between the first and second end wherein the middle point is a distal point of the base relative to the top member wherein the base includes a second portion extending from the top member the second portion extending within the bounds of the first portion and the top member the second portion separately moveable about the top member relative to the first portion a telescopic elongated member having a proximate end attached to the base and extending to a distal end and an arm rest at the distal end of the telescopic elongated member the arm rest configured to stabilize a desired portion of an arm of the wearer while the wearer is shooting.

According to a fourth described aspect a stabilizing shooting rest comprises a base including a clamp the clamp having an upper and a lower member a telescopic elongated member having a proximate end attached to the base and extending to a distal end the telescopic elongated member attaching to the base such that the telescopic elongated member is movable about the base with at least two rotational degrees of freedom and an arm rest at the distal end of the telescopic elongated member the arm rest configured to stabilize a desired portion of a rear arm of the wearer while the wearer is shooting.

According to a fifth described aspect a method of stabilizing a firearm or crossbow comprises providing a stabilizing shooting rest that includes base portion including a clamp the clamp having an upper and a lower member telescopic elongated member having a proximate end attached to the base portion and extending to a distal end the telescopic elongated member attaching to the base portion such that the telescopic elongated member is movable about the base portion with at least two rotational degrees of freedom and an arm rest portion at the distal end of the telescopic elongated member the arm rest portion configured to stabilize desired portion of a rear arm of the wearer while the wearer is shooting attaching the stabilizing shooting rest to an object resting a rear arm or elbow on the arm rest portion of the stabilizing shooting rest and holding a rear end of a firearm or crossbow with the rear arm.

According to a sixth described aspect a stabilizing shooting rest comprises a base including a clamp the clamp having an upper and a lower member a bow holder element attachable to the base the bow holder element including a connecting plate a first finger and a second finger wherein the first and second fingers spaced apart such that a limb of a bow is insertable therein wherein the connecting plate is configured to integrate with a flat surface of the base the connecting plate rotatably attachable about the base in a plurality of positions wherein a first surface of the connecting plate includes a protrusion and wherein the flat surface of the base includes a plurality of first openings arranged in an arc the protrusion configured to be inserted into each of the plurality of first openings to retain the bow holder element in each of the plurality of positions a telescopic elongated member having a proximate end attached to the base and extending to a distal end and an arm rest at the distal end of the telescopic elongated member the arm rest configured to stabilize a desired portion of an arm of the wearer while the wearer is shooting.

A detailed description of the hereinafter described embodiments of the disclosed apparatus and method are presented herein by way of exemplification and not limitation with reference to the Figures.

The telescopic elongated member may be attached to the base portion such that it is movable about the base portion . In the embodiment shown the telescopic elongated member is movable about the base portion with two rotational degrees of freedom. shows the elongated member rotated about the base portion with respect to . The elongated member may also rotate such that the arm rest portion rotates out of the page in at least to some degree. In the embodiment shown the joint may be a ball and socket type joint that prevents full rotation of the arm rest portion out of the page. For example the arm rest portion may be prevented from extending more than 45 degrees out of the page by the joint . However the joint may provide enough freedom to allow the arm rest portion to reach the customizable location on the back elbow or arm of shooters of different heights and sizes. In other words these two rotational degrees of freedom of the telescopic elongated member about the base portion may allow the stabilizing shooting apparatus to reach the appropriate location of the arm or elbow of the wearer shooter when extending from the location at the waist of the wearer shooter .

The telescopic elongated member may also be telescopic such that it can be increased or decreased in length. In the embodiment shown in the the telescopic elongated member may have a first segment a second segment and a third segment . The segments may be separated by rotatable rings . The rotatable rings may be compression rings that may be twisted or rotated in order to lock the segments into place in relation to each other. Thus the compression ring may be turned in a loosening direction in order to release the segments with respect to each other so that the telescopic elongated member may be expanded or contracted. The distal third segment may have a smaller circumference than the middle second segment which in turn may have a smaller diameter than the proximate first segment allowing the elongated telescopic member to expand and contract. The elongated telescopic member may also include markings in order to ensure that the wearer always opens the elongated telescopic member to the same length in use.

The base portion is shown to include two compression clips on the back side in the embodiment shown. The compression clips may allow the stabilizing shooting apparatus to be attached to the belt or waistband of the wearer as shown in . However other embodiments are contemplated in addition to the compression clip . Any base portion that includes a mechanism to attach to the belt of a wearer may be utilized. Other embodiments may include a loop and button hook and loop fasteners a clamp clasp or other fastening means. The base portion may be made of a plastic wood metallic or synthetic material.

The base portion may further include a protective flap . The protective flap not shown that may be employed when the stabilizing shooting apparatus is in a collapsed state while not in use to protect the stabilizing shooting apparatus . The protective flap may be made from a cloth plastic metal leather or synthetic material. The protective flap may also help retain the telescopic elongated member in a refracted state prior to use in the case that the wearer does not tighten the rings after contracting the telescopic elongated member . The protective flap may be connected to the base portion with hook and loop fastener a button buckle or any other appropriate fastening means.

Located at the distal end of the telescopic elongated member is the arm rest portion of the stabilizing shooting apparatus . The arm rest portion may be rotatable about the distal third segment to allow freedom of positioning of the wearer while shooting. In another embodiment shown in the entire elongated member may rotate rather than the arm rest portion . A locking portion may actually lock the arm rest portion into place about the distal third segment in order to prevent rotation once the proper position has been achieved. The arm rest portion may have a constant curvature to ergonomically fit with the arm or elbow of the wearer . In other embodiments the arm rest portion may simply be flat or alternately the arm rest portion may have a non constant curvature across its length. The arm rest portion may be wider or narrower than the embodiment depicted. The arm rest portion may allow the arm or elbow of the wearer to comfortably rest on the arm rest portion for an extended length of time while shooting. Like the base portion the arm rest portion may be made of a plastic wood metallic or synthetic material.

When a shooter requires its assistance the stabilizing shooting apparatus may be silently and immediately employed by the wearer . Employing the stabilizing shooting apparatus may be achieved quickly and with very little detectable movement. To engage the stabilizing shooting apparatus the wearer may first detach the protective flap from the base portion . The protective flap may then unfold and hang downward from the base portion in a non interfering position. The wearer may then rotate the segments of the telescopic elongated member to an upwards pointing position in the first rotational degree of freedom.

The wearer may then expand the telescopic elongated member by turning the rotatable rings counter clockwise to loosen the segments to allow for expansion. The wearer can then turn the rings clockwise to tighten the telescopic elongated member and ensure that the segments are in a locked position relative to each other. The wearer can additionally pivot the telescopic elongated member on a secondary fulcrum point in the second rotational degree of freedom located at the base portion . This second rotational degree of freedom shown in may allow the arm rest portion of the stabilizing shooting apparatus to move to the left and right and achieve any desired position.

In an actual hunting situation or while the shooter is at a shooting range the previous steps may be done in advance of the shot opportunity. In other words the stabilizing shooting apparatus may be previously situated out of the base portion holster pre locked in a proper position and rendered ready to be used well prior to a shot opportunity.

As shown in the wearer may position the stabilizing shooting apparatus under the same arm that controls the rear end of the firearm or crossbow and which pulls the trigger of the firearm or crossbow . This creates a triangular configuration consisting of the base portion which is attached to the waist of the wearer the telescopic elongated member which is anchored to the base portion the arm of the wearer and the torso of the wearer . The shooter may then align the firearm or crossbow centering and holding his sight on the target. While the shooter s arm is supported by the arm rest portion the arm remains steady and stationary. This may allow the firearm or crossbow to also remain stationary and steady without wavering or drifting. It should be understood that the wearer may use the stabilizing shooting apparatus when shooting the firearm or crossbow from a standing sitting or kneeling position. The operation of the stabilizing shooting apparatus will be similar in any of these shooting positions.

Once the firearm or crossbow has been discharged the telescopic elongated member may once again be retracted by turning the rotatable rings counterclockwise. The telescopic elongated member may then be rotated such that it points downward and housed within the base portion . Once in this location the protective flap may again be applied to the base portion to secure the stabilizing shooting apparatus until which time the wearer requires to use the stabilizing shooting rest again.

Referring now to another stabilizing shooting apparatus is shown. The stabilizing shooting apparatus includes a base portion attachable to a belt of a wearer shooter similar to the stabilizing shooting apparatus . The stabilizing shooting apparatus also includes a telescopic elongated member attached to the base portion and an arm rest portion attached to the telescopic elongated member . The telescopic elongated member is similar to the telescopic elongated member except rather than rotatable rings the telescopic elongated member features spring loaded button locks that include a spring loaded button and a series of holes representing accommodations for increasing or decreasing the length of the telescopic elongated member thus resulting in numerous options for arm rest positioning. Other than the spring loaded locking system the stabilizing shooting apparatus may be similar to the stabilizing shooting apparatus described hereinabove. This embodiment displays that the disclosure is not limited to any particular locking system. Any system that provides for telescopic locking of the telescopic elongated member is contemplated.

Further contemplated is another embodiment shown in . This embodiment further shows a first stabilizing shooting rest that includes a similar base portion to the base portions and a telescopic elongated member similar to the telescopic elongated members . The stabilizing shooting rest may include any or all of the attributes of the stabilizing shooting rest described hereinabove. However the first stabilizing shooting rest further includes a joint that is different from the joint and the joint . The joint may provide for detachment of the telescopic elongated member . The telescopic elongated member may include for example include threads that interact with internal threads not shown of the joint in an opening of the joint .

The joint may further include a base element that attaches to the base portion of the first stabilizing shooting rest . The joint may include a ball and socket that allows for two degrees of rotational freedom similar to the first joint . The ball and socket may be located under an inner cylinder and an outer cylinder . The inner cylinder may rotate about the ball and socket and the outer cylinder may rotate about the inner cylinder . This embodiment thus allows for the telescopic elongated element to rotate about the base preventing the need to have the arm rest portion from rotating about the telescopic elongated member . Like the previous joints the joint may provide for at least two rotational degrees of freedom such that the joint may allow the arm rest portion of the stabilizing shooting apparatus to move to the left and right and achieve any desired position. The joint may also include a locking mechanism that locks the inner cylinder the outer cylinder and the ball and socket joint to prevent rotation of the joint and lock the telescopic elongated member into place.

The attachable and detachable joint may allow the elongated element to be removed and attached to a second stabilizing shooting rest shown in . This stabilizing shooting rest includes a base portion that includes a U shaped cross section. At the top of the U shaped cross section on the base portion may include a second of the joints . The joint may receive the elongated member in a similar manner to the attachment to the first base portion of the first stabilizing shooting apparatus . This base portion further includes openings in which bolts may be inserted in order to tighten the base portion to a rod bar or beam . This may allow the base portion to be attached directly to the bar of a hunting chair for example as shown in . The openings may further be configured to receive two bolt heads in order to attach the base portion to a tree or wood structure as shown in . It should be understood that the attachment means for attaching the base portion to a permanent wall or rod may be different than the embodiment shown. The shooter may thereby be able to use the base portion when they are walking around but may then permanently attach the base portion to a permanent structure when the shooter reaches a more permanent location.

In one embodiment a kit may be sold to a customer that includes the first stabilizing shooting apparatus the second stabilizing shooting apparatus each including one of the joints and one elongated member . This kit may further include a belt attachable to the first stabilizing shooting apparatus in one embodiment. It should be understood that further kits may also be sold including the belt and the stabilizing shooting apparatus for example.

Further contemplated is a method of shooting a firearm or crossbow such as the firearm or crossbow . The method includes providing a stabilizing shooting rest such as the stabilizing shooting rest . The method further includes resting a rear arm or elbow on an arm rest portion of the stabilizing shooting rest and holding a rear end of a firearm or crossbow with the rear arm. The method may further include shooting the firearm or crossbow and then contracting the stabilizing shooting rest and wearing the stabilizing shooting rest on a belt.

Referring now to another embodiment of a shooting rest is shown. The shooting rest may include a similar to the shooting rests shown in . Thus the stabilizing shooting rest may include any or all of the attributes of the stabilizing shooting rest described hereinabove. However unlike the shooting rests the shooting rest may include a base that is attachable to the belt of a wearer without compression clips . Instead the base may include a top member . The base and the top member may each extend from a first end to a second end . The base may also include a first portion and a second portion . The first portion may extend from each of the first end and the second end away from the top member . The first portion may also extend to a middle point located between the first and second ends . The middle point is a distal point of the base relative to the top member . The outer edge of the first portion may extend in a semi circular shape or U shape from the top member .

The base may further include the second portion that extends from the top member within the bounds of the first portion and the top member . The second portion may be separately movable about the top member relative to the first portion . As shown in the top member may extend between a top edge and a bottom edge . The first portion may extend from the bottom edge of the top member . The second portion may extend from the top edge of the top member at a downward angle toward the first portion . This structural configuration may allow the first portion and the second portion to be pulled apart such that the second portion no longer extends at a downward angle. Once pulled apart a belt may be inserted between the first and second portions . Then the first and second portions may be released retaining the belt therein and securing the base to the belt.

At a center location of the second portion may be a ball shank . The second portion may include an opening for receiving a fastening component of the ball shank . The fastening component may for example be threaded and may integrate with a bolt or other fastening device which may secure the ball shank to the second portion of the base . The ball shank may be configured to be received by a universal ball joint of a telescopic elongated member . The telescopic elongated member may be similar to the telescopic elongated members . In other words the ball shank and universal ball joint may be configured to allow the telescopic elongated member to move around the base with at least two rotational degrees of freedom pitching and yawing in the embodiment shown. The telescopic elongated member may be configured to lock into place by a thumb screw lock which may be screwed into a threaded opening in the universal ball joint . The thumb screw lock may be replaced by any appropriate locking mechanism.

The second portion may further include a plurality of holding cradles . The holding cradles may be disposed on the second portion at different locations. Each of the holding cradles may be configured to receive and hold the telescopic elongated member . In the embodiment shown the holding cradles each include a semi circular channel that extends farther than 180 degrees in a circle. The telescopic elongated member may have corresponding dimensions to the semi circular channel such that it locks within the channel by spreading out the tips of the channel when it is inserted therein. The tips then clasp the telescopic elongated member within the channel after the telescopic elongated member is received.

The plurality of holding cradles may be disposed such that the telescopic elongated member is receivable and holdable at different rotational positions about the base . For example in the embodiment shown the holding cradle may be configured to hold the telescopic elongated member at a location that is directly beneath the opening such that the telescopic elongated member extends over the bottom middle point of the first portion . The cradles may be located equal to or approximately 45 degrees from the bottom cradle about the opening and the ball shank . These rotatably spaced cradles may allow for the telescopic elongated member to be facing downward toward the ground even if the wearer has rotated his or her body for example in a sitting position .

In the embodiment shown the outer dimension of the second portion has similar dimensions than the inner dimension of the first portion . However the second portion has smaller dimensions to allow the second portion to rest partially within the opening of the first portion . In other embodiments the outer dimensions of the second portion may be even smaller relative to the inner dimensions of the first portion . The inner dimensions of the first portion and the outer dimensions of the second portion may be curved in whatever shape is appropriate. In the embodiment shown these dimensions extend downward from the top member then extend outward to form two wings. The wings then converge at a flat horizontal nose. These dimensions are best shown in . Moreover the base may include horizontal protrusions on the front side shown in of the first portion that are configured to retain the belt of a wearer and prevent the belt from sliding downward with respect to the base of the shooting rest .

Similar to the telescopic elongated members the telescopic elongated member may include an arm rest located at the distal end relative to the base . The arm rest may be configured to rotate about the telescopic elongated member . Moreover the arm rest may be semi circular in shape. The arm rest may include a pad for added comfort for the wearer. The telescopic elongated member is shown in a contracted state. However it should be understood that this member is configured to expand similar to the telescopic elongated members described hereinabove.

Further contemplated herein is a method of shooting a firearm or crossbow which includes providing a stabilizing shooting rest such as the stabilizing shooting rest . The method may include resting a rear arm or elbow on an arm rest portion of the stabilizing shooting rest and holding a rear end of a firearm or crossbow with the rear arm. The method may further include telescopically adjusting the telescopic elongated member and at least one of lengthening and shortening the telescopic elongated member. The method may further include rotating the telescopic elongated member with both pitching and yawing about the base portion. The method may further include rotating the arm rest portion of the telescopic elongated member about the telescopic elongated member.

Referring now to another embodiment of a stabilizing shooting rest is shown. The stabilizing shooting rest may be similar to the stabilizing shooting rest hereinabove in that the stabilizing shooting rest may be attachable to a bar of a hunting chair a tree a wood structure or any other permanent as shown in . It should be understood that the attachment means for attaching the base portion to a permanent wall or rod may be different than the embodiment shown. The shooter may thereby be able to use the base portion when they are walking around but may then permanently attach the base portion to a permanent structure when the shooter reaches a more permanent location.

The stabilizing shooting rest includes a base . The base may include a clamp having an upper member and a lower member . The stabilizing shooting rest may include a telescopic elongated member similar to the telescopic elongated members having a proximate end attached to the base and extending to a distal end. The telescopic elongated member attaches to the base such that the telescopic elongated member is movable about the base with at least two rotational degrees of freedom. The telescopic elongated member includes an arm rest at the distal end. The arm rest may have a semi circular shape and may be rotatable about the telescopic elongated member similar to the embodiments described hereinabove. The arm rest may be configured to stabilize a desired portion of a rear arm of the wearer while the wearer is shooting. The telescopic elongated member may be locked into place by a thumb screw lock .

The clamp may further include at least one thumb screw lock . In the embodiment shown the clamp includes two thumb screw locks . The thumb screw locks may be threaded and may engage with threaded openings found in at least one of the upper and lower members of the clamp . In the embodiment shown the threaded openings are formed in the lower member . It should be understood that the relative distance compared to the other dimensions of the base between the upper and lower members may be greater or less than the embodiment shown. In non relative terms the distance may be between 1 and 4 inches. This may allow for the clamp to clamp onto various different structural components. It should be understood that the clamping element may not include similar structure to the clamp and may include other types of clamping mechanisms that are configured to clamp onto structural components in similar ways.

The stabilizing shooting rest may further include a bow holder element . The bow holder element may be attachable to the base . The bow holder element may include a connecting plate a first finger and a second finger . The first and second fingers may be spaced apart such that a limb of a bow is insertable therein. For example the first and second fingers may be spaced apart by between 0.5 and 4 inches in some embodiments. The fingers may also have a length that allows for the entire bow limb to fit therein. For example the fingers may have a length between 2 and 5 inches in some embodiments. The fingers may also extend upward at the distal ends relative to the base in order to prevent the bow limbs from falling out from between the fingers . The fingers may extend substantially perpendicular from the plane of the connecting plate .

The connecting plate of the bow holder element may be configured to integrate with a flat surface of the base such that the connecting plate may be configured to rotatably attach about the base in a plurality of positions. A first surface not shown of the connecting plate opposite a second surface of the connecting plate may include a protrusion not shown . The flat surface of the base may include a plurality of first openings which may be arranged in an arc. The protrusion may be configured to be inserted into each of the plurality of first openings one at a time to retain the bow holder element in each of the plurality of positions.

The connecting plate may be attachable to the flat surface of the base with a thumb screw lock that is insertable through both an opening in the connecting plate and a second opening in the flat surface of the base . The second opening may be located within a center position of an arc of a plurality of first openings located about the second opening . The protrusion in the first surface of the connecting plate may be located directly below the opening in the connecting plate at the same distance that the first openings are with respect to the second opening in the flat surface . Thus the connecting plate may first be aligned with the flat surface of the base so that the protrusion is inserted into one of the first openings of the flat surface of the base . Then the screw lock may be insertable into both openings and tightened to lock the bow holder element into the base .

In another embodiment not shown the connecting plate may be biased against the base with a spring loaded mechanism such that the protrusion is removable from the plurality of first openings by pulling the connecting plate from the flat surface . In this embodiment for example there may be a spring located between the connecting plate and the flat surface . Pulling the connecting plate from the flat surface may decompress the spring from a previous mechanical equilibrium state causing the spring to want to compress. This desire for the spring to want to compress after pulling the connecting plate from the flat surface will cause the connecting plate to be pulled together with the flat surface when the projection finds the proper first opening and the user releases the connecting plate . It should be understood that a spring embodiment may prevent the need to fully remove the bow holder element from the rest of the base .

In another embodiment the base of the shooting rest may further include at least one accessory hanger . In the embodiment shown the base includes two accessory hangers each on opposite sides of the base . The accessory hangers may each protrude from a middle portion of the base . The middle portion may be located between the two ends of the base defined by the first surface and the clamp . The accessory hangers may have circular cross sections and may have a larger circumferential knobbed end in order to retain any hanged accessories to prevent the hanged accessories from falling from the shooting rest .

On a top surface of the base may be an opening into which a ball shank may be attachable. The ball shank may be similar to the ball shank described hereinabove. The ball shank may be configured to receive a universal ball joint of the telescopic elongated member . Like the above embodiments the telescopic elongated member may be configured to rotate about the base in at least two rotational degrees of freedom for example by pitching and yawing about the base . The top surface may also include a cradle located at the end of the first surface . A portion of the cradle may actually comprise a portion of the first surface . The cradle may be configured to receive the telescopic elongated member in a similar manner to that described hereinabove with respect to how the cradles receive the telescopic elongated member .

A bottom surface may be located on the base below the top surface and may be curved in a semi annular shape in order to provide structural integrity to the base . However it should be understood that the curved bottom may not be necessary. Instead the base may have another shaped bottom or may simply be flat.

In another embodiment a method of stabilizing a firearm or crossbow may include providing a stabilizing shooting rest such as the stabilizing shooting rest . The method may include attaching the stabilizing shooting rest to an object and resting a rear arm or elbow on the arm rest portion of the stabilizing shooting rest. The method may include holding a rear end of the firearm or crossbow with the rear arm. The method may further include telescopically adjusting the telescopic elongated member and at least one of lengthening or shortening the telescopic elongated member. The method may further include rotating the telescopic elongated member with both pitching and yawing about the base portion. The method may further include rotating the arm rest portion about the telescopic elongated member. Finally the method may include attaching the connecting plate to the base unattaching the connecting plate from the base rotating the connecting plate about the base and reattaching the rotated connecting plate to the base.

Elements of the embodiments have been introduced with either the articles a or an. The articles are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms including and having and their derivatives are intended to be inclusive such that there may be additional elements other than the elements listed. The conjunction or when used with a list of at least two terms is intended to mean any term or combination of terms. The terms first and second are used to distinguish elements and are not used to denote a particular order.

While the invention has been described in detail in connection with only a limited number of embodiments it should be readily understood that the invention is not limited to such disclosed embodiments. Rather the invention can be modified to incorporate any number of variations alterations substitutions or equivalent arrangements not heretofore described but which are commensurate with the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally while various embodiments of the invention have been described it is to be understood that aspects of the invention may include only some of the described embodiments. Accordingly the invention is not to be seen as limited by the foregoing description but is only limited by the scope of the appended claims.

