---

title: Casualty monitoring system for autonomous vehicle
abstract: A casualty monitoring system is provided in communication with a vehicle controller and configured to monitor and shut down an undersea vehicle. The casualty monitoring processor and the vehicle controller receives, but is not limited to receiving; sensing notification by a depth cutoff switch, a battery over-temperature switch, an over-pressure switch which responds to internal pressure of the vehicle; and a watchdog timer which responds to a failing casualty monitor processor. Before the casualty monitoring processor or the vehicle controller responds to a predetermined setting from these components; casualty logic of the monitoring system will have immediately removed power to the vehicle via a start-up circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09031733&OS=09031733&RS=09031733
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09031733
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130215
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to monitoring systems and more specifically to operation and casualty monitoring systems for use on autonomous undersea vehicles.

Known performance monitoring systems used in undersea vehicles include a generally autonomous control unit in operational communication with performance monitoring subsystems. The prior art on monitoring systems include 

Yavnai U.S. Pat. No. 6 122 572 recites a programmable decision unit capable of managing and controlling the execution of a mission by utilizing a plurality of subsystems and database capable of holding and managing data including pre stored data and data acquired by and received from the subsystems. The programmable decision unit includes a mission plan MP for accomplishing the execution of the missions. The mission plan also includes a succession of iterations that has each assignment of a mission segment associated with a mission stated to one or more of the subsystems. Each iteration further includes receipt from the subsystems report data for determining either normal behavior or an exceptional event. The programmable decision unit is capable of managing and controlling the execution of the mission in an autonomous fashion whereby the vehicle becomes an autonomous vehicle.

Knoska et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 816 088 recites a marine vessel monitoring system capable of monitoring vessels when the vessels are unable or unavailable to be personally monitored. The system provides for inspecting and repairing a designated marine vessel at periodic intervals and for reporting the results of such inspections and repairs to the vessel s owner.

Potter et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 194 975 provides a health monitoring system for an unmanned underwater vehicle in which the system is disposed within a submerged docking station. The health monitoring system receives signal representative of the performance of the docking station equipment and uses the data to determine the health status of the docking station equipment to generate health status data representative thereof and transmits the health status data to a remote station. The health monitoring system also retrieves health status data from UUVs that are periodically docked in the docking station and transmits this data to the remote station.

Osburn I I I et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 747 710 provides a system for detecting changes in measurable conditions comprising an enterprise server at least one vessel and a broadcast device on the vessel. The broadcast device is in communication with a satellite. At least one remote terminal unit is on the vessel and the remote terminal unit is in communication with an electronic cryptographic module. The remote terminal unit stores digital data in a memory area for transmission. Communications software adapted to handle multiple telemetries and protocols links the enterprise server directly with each vessel collects digital data on changes in measurable conditions and initiates an alarm when the digital data signifies a change outside a preset limit. Configuration software configures the remote terminal unit by executing configuration commands using the communication software. A broadcast device is disposed on each vessel for enabling the remote terminal unit on each vessel to directly communicate with the enterprise server.

Lash et. al. United States Patent Publication No. 2002 0158776 provides a remote marine monitoring and control system that compiles security information and statistics for on board equipment on unattended boats uses a wireless transmitter to send this data to a user over a communications network and allows a user to remotely operate the user s boat in response. Boat operational data can be provided to a user on a variety of personal communication devices and or thru a monitoring website. These devices can also be used by the user to send a user command to remotely control the operation of the boat. The remote marine monitoring system identifies normal operating conditions for on board equipment and compares these conditions to the operating activity in order to detect unusual activity. Security information can also be compiled and reported relating to intrusion sensors keyless entry and the boat s physical location.

According to an embodiment of the invention a casualty monitoring system is provided in which the monitoring system is in operational communication with a vehicle controller and other equipment to monitor and control an undersea vehicle. The casualty monitoring system is operationally connected but not limited to depth sensors a depth cut off switch leak sensors a battery over temperature switch an over pressure switch responsive to the internal pressure of a vehicle and a watchdog timer that monitors a processor of the system. Because of the flexible capabilities of the casualty monitoring system the system can be connected to other monitors sensors and operating hardware.

The following description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention since the scope of the invention is best defined by the appended claims.

The present invention relates to a system and method of use for casualty monitoring and control of autonomous undersea vehicles. The casualty monitoring system CASMON includes a capability for rapidly deactivating a vehicle if a predetermined fault occurs. Rapid deactivation puts the vehicle in a state for recovery and helps to prevent total loss of the vehicle.

Specifically the invention provides a framework for a hardware and a firmware embodiment that supports the integration of multiple monitoring inputs. The firmware includes program code that may be stored on a computer usable medium. The casualty monitoring system is capable of detecting critical faults and protecting hardware from electrical and physical damage. The casualty monitoring system also records fault conditions including the time and date of each fault. This recordation enhances troubleshooting of the fault and helps to prevent similar faults.

The casualty monitoring system includes a processor and a watchdog timer to monitor the processor. The monitoring system is also operationally connected to an acoustic receiver and a depth sensor .

The casualty monitoring system further monitors the vehicle for failures such as leakage of fluid for example conductive seawater into the vehicle current voltage and temperature from a vehicle battery as well as failures in the processor . As will be discussed further the importance of the vehicle controller requires additional monitoring for the controller. The casualty monitoring system also communicates with a buoyancy device an over pressure switch for monitoring pressure within the vehicle a power distribution assembly and a switch .

The switch is a power relay capable of switching hundreds of amperes of current. The switch resides within a start up circuit and is electrically positioned between the battery and the power distribution assembly which converts battery voltage into the voltages required by the vehicle . When the switch closes responding to circuits not related to the casualty monitoring system the battery connects to the power distribution assembly through the switch and the power distribution assembly creates the needed voltages thereby allowing the vehicle to turn on. The battery powers components of the vehicle as well as powering a motor for propelling the vehicle. An over temperature switch monitors the battery .

At the end of a successful run when a vehicle shutdown is commanded by the vehicle controller the casualty monitoring processor asserts a shutdown bit a digital output bit which through casualty logic signals the start up circuit to open the switch . In the event of a casualty condition the casualty logic will signal the start up circuit to open the switch without requiring the bit from the casualty monitoring processor . When the switch opens the undersea vehicle and the equipment in the vehicle power off.

The buoyancy device allows the vehicle to operate if positive buoyancy does not exist. When a vehicle shutdown is initiated the casualty monitoring system would activate the buoyancy device for positive buoyancy thereby allowing the vehicle to float to the ocean surface.

The casualty monitoring system includes an amplifier and low pass filter that conditions an analog signal from the depth sensor . Conditioning in this instance refers to a buffer amplifier and to the use of the low pass filter that removes high frequency noise and spikes if present from a changing output voltage of the depth sensor . The output of the depth sensor is a voltage reflecting that the deeper that the vehicle is positioned or travels the output voltage of the sensor is higher. The processor converts this voltage to a digital number corresponding to the value of the voltage and scaled to units of meters. The real time depth number is sent to the vehicle controller every tenth of a second for use in an autopilot function.

The casualty monitoring system also includes an isolator and scaler that inputs battery voltage from the battery isolates the battery from a power bus not shown and scales the battery voltage to levels acceptable to the casualty monitoring processor .

Specifically the battery is 162 Volts fully charged. This voltage if connected to analog to digital converters of the casualty monitoring processor would cause very extensive damage to the processor. The isolator and scaler brings the battery voltage down to a level within the operating range of the analog to digital converters of the casualty monitoring processor .

For numerous reasons it is problematic to connect a battery bus the and the of the battery directly to circuits. Basically the battery voltage is too high as well as for safety and electrical noise reasons. The power distribution assembly utilizes power converters conversion of the high voltage of the battery into useful lower voltages required by vehicle subsystems that maintain isolation between the input the battery and the output voltages subsystem power voltages . The current of the battery is monitored using a commercially available Hall effect sensor which has built in isolation capabilities. The Hall effect sensor is part of the start up circuit .

The casualty monitoring system further includes an amplifier and filter that receives an analog voltage from the start up circuit amplifies the voltage and filters the voltage. The amplification matches the level of signal voltage to that of the inputs to the analog to digital inputs of the processor . The filtering removes noise and spikes if present from the output signal.

The casualty monitoring system further communicates with the battery over temperature switch which starts shutdown of the vehicle if the battery overheats. Specifically the over temperature switch communicates with the casualty logic of the casualty monitoring system which will then shut down the vehicle via the start up circuit . This shutdown immediacy is needed because an over temperature of the battery could result in a fire or explosion.

The casualty logic is also capable of monitoring other critical signals from the vehicle and determining if a critical hardware error has occurred. If the casualty logic determines that a critical hardware error has occurred the circuit outputs a signal to the start up circuit which removes power to the vehicle .

The casualty monitoring system includes an input power port that powers the system. The monitoring system may require power in the following voltages 5V 12V 12V and 24V. The vehicle includes the power distribution assembly that provides the power to the input port . Upon powering up the casualty monitoring system the firmware of the monitoring system initializes.

The operational firmware of the casualty monitoring system utilizes leak detection circuitry that monitors leak sensors by detecting a short circuit between the sensors. The leak sensors may be two or more contacts residing at a bottom center of the hull of the vehicle . The leak sensors detect conductive fluid leaks in the vehicle .

The casualty monitoring system further communicates with a tracking transponder . The acoustic receiver is part of the tracking transponder wherein the transponder is half of the acoustic tracking system of the vehicle . In operation a shipboard half not shown of the acoustic tracking system pings into the ocean and the tracking transponder aboard the vehicle pings back. The shipboard half of the system then calculates a position range and bearing of the vehicle relative to the ship. The pings are emitted periodically typically at a rate of one ping every 8 seconds from the ship with the tracking transponder responding. This operation occurs automatically and independently of any other subsystem on the vehicle including the casualty monitoring system . With the casualty monitoring system monitoring the ping rates of the tracking transponder a method by which the vehicle can be remotely inactivated shutdown is attained.

In regard to shutting down the vehicle a shipboard operator can increase the rate of pinging for example every two seconds instead of every eight seconds . The casualty monitoring system determines the interval between pings by using the signal from the tracking transponder . If the casualty monitoring system determines that the rate of pinging is every two seconds 0.1 seconds then the casualty monitoring system assumes that the shipboard operator is requesting a shutdown of the vehicle . The processor then sets the shutdown bit into the casualty logic and subsequently into the startup circuit thereby interrupting power from the battery to the vehicle .

The casualty monitoring system also includes an interface and latch that takes the ping pulse signal and converts the signal to a toggling logic level that can be monitored asynchronously. The casualty monitoring system uses this toggling logic signal to determine how often the tracking transponder is being interrogated.

The casualty monitoring system communicates to other systems with an Ethernet network switch . Via the Ethernet switch the firmware of the casualty monitoring system reports monitored inputs to the vehicle controller . Restated these monitored inputs include but are not limited to vehicle depth state of a depth cutoff switch current and voltage of the battery battery over temperature the leak sensors tracking transponder interrogation pulses internal over pressure of the vehicle a vehicle controller keep alive timer and spare inputs.

The casualty logic comprises logic integrated circuits that receive outputs from the depth cutoff switch the battery over temperature switch the vehicle internal over pressure switch the casualty monitoring processor watchdog timer and a digital output shutdown bit from the casualty monitoring processor . Signals from the above components will result in a shutdown signal being immediately sent to the startup circuit without intervention of the casualty monitoring processor . The startup circuit responds by disconnecting the battery from the vehicle .

Other potential fault conditions which may not require an immediate shutdown of the vehicle are reported to the vehicle controller thereby allowing the vehicle controller to determine the appropriate action for the specific mission. Such fault conditions include but are not limited to detection of a seawater leak an unexpectedly high battery current or a battery voltage approaching a depleted state. The vehicle controller may as part of a response to the information issue a vehicle shutdown command to the casualty monitoring processor via the Ethernet.

The firmware of the casualty monitor processor monitors communications via the Ethernet from the vehicle controller . This communication from the vehicle controller may include a command to shut down the vehicle . In this case the firmware of the casualty monitoring processor sets a digital output shutdown bit which feeds into the casualty logic and relays this signal to the startup circuit which then disconnects the battery from the vehicle . In addition to a shutdown command Ethernet communications from the vehicle controller may include commands to set or reset digital output bits or relay outputs .

The depth cutoff DCO switch opens when a maximum depth is exceeded. The switch may be a pressure switch adjustable to external water pressure on the vehicle as a force to open or close the switch. The switch is mounted in a manifold open to seawater not shown with the other side of the switch inside the vehicle and mounted to the manifold using a waterproof seal.

The over pressure switch notifies the casualty logic to remove power to the vehicle in response to high internal pressure in the vehicle. Switch conditioners filter noise from the switches and in order to prevent triggering a shutdown due to electrical noise or spikes.

In an exemplary embodiment the casualty monitoring system includes spare digital outputs and relay outputs that interface with external hardware. The casualty monitoring system includes at least eight spare inputs with conditioning that allows for signal voltage dividers pull up and pull down functions and filtering. The casualty monitoring system further includes a signal switcher router that routes the digital outputs of the processor to a driver integrated circuit or a solid state relay.

Functionality for a vehicle controller keep alive timer a software function of the processor includes setting a shutdown bit in response to predetermined vehicle controller communication not occurring for a predetermined time. For example if routine and periodic communications of the vehicle controller have not occurred for a preset period of time the shutdown bit may be set. If a timeout period of the vehicle controller keep alive timer expires the vehicle controller may have suffered an operational failure and may be unable to communicate. In response the casualty monitoring processor sets a shutdown bit which transmits thru the casualty logic with the result of shutting down the vehicle .

The following functions are done in parallel by the hardware of the casualty monitoring system the depth sensors are amplified and filtered a voltage of the battery is isolated and scaled the voltage signal output from the start up circuit is amplified and filtered leak signals are detected and filtered the tracking transponder signal is converted from a pulse to a toggling logic level the spare digital inputs are conditioned and filtered the processor spare digital outputs are switched and routed to drivers and or solid state relays the casualty monitoring system watchdog timer operates the depth cut off switch signal and input is conditioned and filtered to the output of the battery over temperature switch is conditioned and filtered and the output of the internal over pressure switch is conditioned and filtered. The digital and analog inputs of the functions are then sent to the casualty monitoring system processor . Critical casualty signals depth cutoff switch over temperature switch overpressure switch processor watchdog data and the casualty monitoring processor shutdown bit are fed to the casualty logic .

A determination is made as to whether the casualty logic detects any critical casualty signals. If there is no detection the casualty monitoring system hardware continues to operate. If there is detection of a critical casualty signal the start up circuit is notified to deactivate the vehicle by disconnecting the battery from the vehicle.

In conjunction with the hardware the firmware of the casualty monitoring system continuously reads processes and stores the inputs of the casualty monitor processor . Also the firmware pulses the watchdog timer . If the watchdog timer expires the start up circuit is notified to deactivate the vehicle by disconnecting the battery from the vehicle.

The firmware also determines whether a new vehicle controller message is received. If a new message is received from the vehicle controller then the vehicle controller keep alive timer is reset. The required commands within the message from the vehicle controller are performed typically set reset monitoring system processor output bits . However if the message from the vehicle controller contains a shutdown command then the start up circuit is notified to shut down the vehicle . A response message from the processor is sent to the vehicle controller with the latest monitored inputs of the casualty monitoring system .

In regard to the operation of the watchdog timer the timer includes the actions of monitoring the processor to determine if the processor is executing code as programmed. During normal function a portion of code in the firmware of the casualty monitoring system resets the watchdog timer . During malfunction the code may not be processed thereby allowing the watchdog timer to expire. This expiration sequentially triggers removal of battery power from the vehicle by the start up circuit . As an example the predetermined condition of the processor may include a hardware failure and or a stack overflow in the processor with the result that the processor no longer processes the intended programmed code.

The processor is hardwired to the resetting of the watchdog timer . Unlike existing systems the watchdog timer is tied to the casualty logic instead of being tied to a reset of the casualty monitoring processor . The casualty logic inactivates the vehicle directly and immediately via the start up circuit without requiring action by the casualty monitoring processor . As such the shutdown of the vehicle may not involve the firmware functions of the processor .

The following items trigger or are factors in the triggering of a shutdown of a vehicle in response to information provided to the casualty monitoring system . These factors include but are not limited to shutdown by a failure mode of the casualty monitoring processor shutdown because of stack overflow of the casualty monitoring processor if stack overflow causes interruption shutdown because of an improper battery voltage level shutdown because of an improper battery current level shutdown because of a leak of water or other conductive fluid into the vehicle and a remotely activated shutdown implemented by the operation of the tracking transponder .

The system also includes an emergency cut off switch that interrupts current in the event of a fault with the cut off switch triggered by the casualty monitoring system . The battery charging safety system further includes a user console that allows battery data to be displayed on a monitor so that the user can monitor charging progress and observe any developing fault conditions in the system.

The battery charging safety system also includes temperature sensors that sense temperature within the battery charging module . An overly high temperature may indicate battery malfunction. The system also includes chemical gas sensors that sense compounds emitted by batteries under fault conditions. For example in the case of lead acid batteries dangerous and explosive hydrogen gas may be released.

The battery charging safety system further includes pressure sensors that sense a buildup of pressure within the battery charging module . The system includes smoke sensors that sense smoke in the module .

The battery charging system may include a fire department auto dialer that contacts a fire department or other emergency personnel in the event of fire. The battery charging system also includes an emergency vent for venting to the exterior of any enclosure or building containing the battery charging module. The emergency vent uses a fan to remove toxic gasses emitted during a failure of batteries. The system further includes sprinklers that control fires by dispensing water.

It should be understood of course that the foregoing relates to preferred embodiments of the invention and those modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

