---

title: Anti-ceramide monoclonal antibody 2A2
abstract: We have discovered that administering anti-ceramide antibody treats and prevents an array of diseases mediated by cytolytic T lymphocyte (CTLs)-induced killing and by damage to endothelial microvasculture, including radiation-induced GI syndrome, Graft vs. Host diseases, inflammatory diseases and autoimmune diseases. We have also discovered new anti-ceramide monoclonal antibodies, that have therapeutic use preferably in humanized form to treat or prevent these diseases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09592238&OS=09592238&RS=09592238
owner: SLOAN KETTERING INSTITUTE FOR CANCER RESEARCH
number: 09592238
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130823
---
This present application is a divisional application of application Ser. No 12 599 280 filed Nov. 6 2009 which a 371 national stage application of PCT Application No. PCT US2008 062789 filed on May 6 2008 and claims priority to Provisional Appln. 60 916 298 filed May 6 2007 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with Government support under CA085704 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention is in the field of methods for treating and preventing GI Syndrome and Graft Versus Host Disease.

Radiation remains one of the most effective treatments for a wide variety of malignant cells however healthy cells of the bone marrow hair follicle epidermis and gastrointestinal tract are extremely sensitive to radiation induced cell death limiting the effective use of this therapy for the treatment of cancer. Bone marrow transplantation is another way to treat advanced cancer however organ transplants frequently evoke a variety of immune responses in the host which results in rejection of the graft and graft versus host disease hereinafter referred to as GVHD . Bone marrow transplantation is currently used to treat a number of malignant and non malignant diseases including acute and chronic leukemias myelomas solid tumors R. J. Jones Curr Opin Oncol 3 2 234 1991 G. L. Phillips Prog Clin Biol Res 354B 171 1990 aplastic anemias and severe immunodeficiency s R. P. Gale R. E. Champlin S. A. Feig et at Ann Intern Med 95 4 477 1981 G. M. Silber J. A. Winkelstein R. C. Moen et at Clin Immunol Immunopathol 44 3 317 1987 . The conditioning regimen required prior to transplantation designed to ablate or suppress the patient s immune system renders the patient susceptible to neoplastic relapse or infection. Recent use of unrelated and HLA non identical donors has unfortunately increased the incidence of GvHD. While removal of T cells from the donor marrow graft ameliorates GvHD this strategy increases graft failure rates and markedly diminishes the therapeutically beneficial graft versus tumor effect. As such overall survival does not improve. Further despite strong pre clinical data attempts to improve GvHD outcomes by diminishing inflammatory cytokine action by adding TNF antagonists to corticosteroids the standard of care for acute GvHD has provided limited therapeutic benefit. Thus there is an urgent need for alternative strategies to reduce the incidence and severity of GI syndrome and GvHD if it is to be optimized clinically.

We have discovered that administering anti ceramide antibody treats and prevents an array of diseases mediated by cytolytic T lymphocyte CTLs induced killing and by damage to endothelial microvasculture including radiation induced GI syndrome Graft vs Host diseases inflammatory diseases and autoimmune diseases herein the enumerated diseases . We have also discovered a new anti ceramide monoclonal antibody 2A2 and others described below that have therapeutic use preferably in humanized form to treat or prevent the enumerated diseases. Identified as Myeloma cell fused with spleen cells from Balb c mouse 2A2.1.1.1.1 the submission was deposited as ATCC Deposit No. PTA 13418 on Jan. 9 2012. The ATCC number referred to above is directed to a biological deposit with the ATCC 10801 University Boulevard Manassas Va. 20110 2209. The strain referred to is being maintained under the terms of the Budapest Treaty and will be made available to a patent office signatory to the Budapest Treaty. Other embodiments of the invention are directed to combination therapy to treat or prevent the above enumerated diseases by administering anti ceramide antibody together with one or more statins or with imipramine or other ASMase inhibitor or Bax inhibitor. Yet other embodiments include administering an antisense nucleotides or small interfering RNA in an amount that reduces expression of ASMase Bax and Bak or otherwise reduces or ameliorates a symptom of any of the enumerated diseases. Finally certain embodiments are directed to compositions for therapeutic use in treating or preventing the enumerated diseases that include an anti ceramide antibody and one or more statins or imipramine.

Lipid rafts which are distinct plasma membrane microdomains comprised of cholesterol tightly packed with sphingolipids in particular sphingomyelin creating a liquid ordered domain within the liquid disordered bulk plasma membrane. Rafts differ in their protein and lipid composition from the surrounding membrane housing signaling molecules including multiple glycosylphosphatidylinositol GPI anchored proteins doubly acylated tyrosine kinases of the Src family and transmembrane proteins. In addition rafts serve as sites that multiple receptors translocate into or out of upon their activation including the B cell receptor BCR upon encountering antigen. Recent evidence suggests that these translocation events are crucial for multiple signal transduction cascades.

Sphingolipids which were classically viewed as structural components of cell membranes were discovered to be important regulators of signal transduction by the determination that 1 2 diacylglycerols stimulated sphingomyelin hydrolysis to ceramideBy identifying activation of an acidic sphingomyelinase ASMase that generates ceramide in GH3 pituitary cells these studies introduced a potential role for ceramide as a second messenger. This role was supported by the identification of modulated protein phosphorylation events and kinase activity in vitro by addition of exogenous ceramides R. N. Kolesnick and M. R. Hemer 265 31 18803 1990 S. Mathias K. A. Dressler and R. N. Kolesnick 88 22 10009 1991 . Ultimately the coupling of tumor necrosis factor receptor TNFR activation with ceramide generation in a cell free system antagonism of TNF mediated signaling by inhibition of ceramide generation and the recapitulation by exogenous ceramides of TNF signaling in cells devoid of ceramide generation established ceramide as a bona fide lipid second messenger K. A. Dressler S. Mathias and R. N. Kolesnick 255 5052 1715 1992 .

Acid sphingomyelinase ASMase is a sphingomyelin specific phospholipase C sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase that exists in two forms a lysosomal and secretory form it initiates a rapid stress response in many cell types R. Kolesnick 21 2 3 287 1994 J. Lozano S. Menendez A. Morales et al. 276 1 442 2001 Y. Morita G. I. Perez F. Paris et al. 6 10 1109 2000 F. Paris Z. Fuks A. Kang et al. 293 5528 293 2001 Santana L. A. Pena A. Haimovitz Friedman et al. 86 2 189 1996 . Our recent work showed that clustering of plasma membrane lipid rafts into ceramide enriched platforms amplify stimuli capable of activating ASMase. Grassme et al. J Biol Chem. 2001 276 20589 incorporated herein by reference. In these studies we showed that in vitro and in vivo extracellularly orientated ceramide released upon CD95 triggered translocation of ASMase to the plasma membrane outer surface enabled clustering of CD95 in sphingolipid rich membrane rafts and induced apoptosis in Jerkat cells. Whereas ASMase deficiency destruction of rafts or neutralization of surface ceramide prevented CD95 clustering and apoptosis natural ceramide rescued ASMase deficient cells. The data showed that CD95 mediated clustering by ceramide is a prerequisite for signaling and apoptotic cell death. Jurkat cells are a human T cell leukemia cell line.

Others have shown that ceramide is required for Fas induced apoptosis in some cell types. We looked at the requirement for UV C induced ceramide generation in initiating the apoptotic response. By UV C is meant ultraviolet radiation in the 100 280 nm wavelength range. In these studies imipramine was used to inhibit ASMase activity. Pre treatment of Jurkat cells with 50 mM imipramine for 30 min decreased baseline ASMase activity abrogated UV C and Fas induced ASMase activation at 1 min post stimulation and ceramide generation at 2 minutes and attenuated apoptosis at 4 hours post stimulation. These data showed that ASMase activation is indispensable for optimal Fas or UV C induced apoptosis though they do not define the role of ceramide per se in this response. Grassme et al. J Biol Chem. 2001 276 20589 incorporated herein by reference.

Ceramide has important roles in differentiation proliferation and growth arrest but the most prominent role for ceramide is in the induction of programmed cell death. Exogenous Cceramide and sphingomyelinase mimicked TNF induced DNA fragmentation and loss of clonogenicity in HL60 human leukemia cells suggesting that ceramide was an essential component of apoptotic signaling K. A. Dressler S. Mathias and R. N. Kolesnick 255 5052 1715 1992 . Ionizing radiation IR stimulates sphingomyelin hydrolysis to ceramide and exogenous ceramide was able to bypass phorbol ester mediated inhibition of radiation induced ceramide generation and apoptosis A. Haimovitz Friedman C. C. Kan D. Ehleiter et al. 180 2 525 1994 . Lymphoblasts derived from Niemann Pick patients a genetic disease characterized by an inherited deficiency in ASMase activity proved in a genetic model that ASMase mediated ceramide generation is required for radiation induced apoptosis and the development of an ASMase deficient mouse allowed the identification of cell type specific roles for ceramide J. Lozano S. Menendez A. Morales et al. J Biol Chem 276 1 442 2001 P. Santana L. A. Pena A. Haimovitz Friedman et al. Cell 86 2 189 1996 . Ceramide generation has since been identified as requisite for multiple cytokine virus pathogen environmental stress and chemotherapeutic induced apoptotic events. Verheij M et al. Requirement for ceramide initiated SAPK JNK signaling in stress induced apoptosis. Nature. 1996 Mar. 7 380 6569 75 9 Riethm ller J et al. Membrane rafts in host pathogen interactions Biochim Biophys Acta. 2006 December 1758 12 2139 47 incorporated herein by reference.

An emerging body of evidence has since recognized ceramide mediated raft clustering as sites of signal transduction for bacteria and pathogen internalization and radiation and chemotherapeutic induced apoptosis. D. A. Brown and E. London 14 1 1 1 1998 J. C. Fanzo M. P. Lynch H. Phee et al. 2 4 392 2003 S. Lacour A. Hammann S. Grazide et al. 64 10 3593 2004 Semac C. Palomba K. Kulangara et al. 63 2 534 2003 A. B. Abdel Shakor K. Kwiatkowska and A. Sobota 279 35 36778 2004 H. Grassme V. Jendrossek J. Bock et al. 168 1 298 2002 M. S. Cragg S. M. Morgan H. T. Chan et al. 101 3 1045 2003 D. Scheel Toellner K. Wang L. K. Assi et al. 32 Pt 5 679 2004 . D. Delmas C. Rebe S. Lacour et al. 278 42 41482 2003 . and C. Bezombes S. Grazide C. Garret et al. 104 4 1166 2004 .

In this context ceramide enriched platforms transmit signals for IR induced apoptosis of Jurkat cells Zhang and Kolesnick unpublished results and bovine aortic endothelial cells Stancevic and Kolesnick unpublished results CD40 induced IL 12 secretion and c Jun Kinase phosphorylation in JY B cells internalization and activation of the innate immune response in lung Rituximab induced CD20 clustering and ERK phosphorylation in Daudi and RL lymphoma cells FcR II clustering and phosphorylation in U937 human monocytic cells and resveratrol cisplatin and reactive oxygen species induced apoptosis in HT29 human colon carcinoma cells and neutrophils. Despite extensive studies on the downstream effects of ASMase translocation and activation little was known of the initiating events mediating its translocation onto the outer plasma membrane until we showed that there is a capsase independent pathway that initiates ASMase signaling. J. A. Rotolo et al. J. Biol. Chem. Vol 280 No. 29 Issue of July 15 26425 34 2005 incorporated herein by reference.

It is important to emphasize that there are multiple pathways in a cell to make ceramide in different compartments. Ceramide generated at the cell surface in rafts by ASMase is different from ceramide inside the cell. The results presented below show for the first time that ASMase generated cell surface ceramide is responsible for causing radiation induced GI syndrome through damage to endothelial microvasculature a hallmark of GI syndrome . We further show that ASMase generated ceramide is required for GVHD caused by T cell mediated killing. Thus ASMase generated ceramide is required for both endothelial microvasculature damage and T cell mediated killing. We have further discovered that inhibiting or sequestering ceramide generated by ASMase by administering anti ceramide antibodies in vivo reduced radiation induced damage and can be sued to treat or prevent GI syndrome and GvHD. Certain embodiments of the present invention are directed to pharmacological methods to treat or prevent GVHD and GI syndrome and other T cell mediated diseases including autoimmune diseases by blocking ASMase for example with imipramine or with antisense nucleic acids or by inactivating cell surface ceramide for example with anti ceramide antibodies alone or together with statins .

The intestinal clonogenic compartment housing stem cells of the small intestine resides at positions 4 9 from the bottom of the crypt of Lieberk hn and consists of intestinal pluripotent stem cells and uncommitted progenitor clonogens herein called stem cell clonogens. This group of cells proliferates and differentiates incessantly replenishing the physiologic loss of enterocytes and other differentiated epithelial cells from the villus apex thus maintaining the anatomical and functional integrity of the mucosa. A complete depletion of this compartment appears required to permanently destroy the crypt villus unit while surviving stem cell clonogens albeit even one per crypt are capable of regenerating a fully functional crypt.

Radiation targets both the gastrointestinal microvasculature and proliferating crypt stem cells. Apoptosis of the microvascular endothelium in the villus represents the primary lesion of the GI syndrome occurring 4 hours following radiation. Endothelial apoptosis converts lesions to the crypt clonogens from sublethal to lethal resulting in loss of regenerative crypts and promoting GI toxicity. Immunohistochemical and labeling studies with H TdR and BrdUrd revealed that crypt stern cell clonogen death does not occur acutely after radiation exposure. Rather the earliest detectable response is a temporary dose dependent delay in progression through a late S phase checkpoint and mitotic arrest apparently signaled by radiation induced DNA double strand breaks dsb . In mammalian cells DNA dsbs activate pathways of DNA damage recognition and repair and a coordinated regulation of cell cycle checkpoint activity. The intestinal stem cell mitotic arrest appears to represent a regulated event in this pathway. Consistent with this notion no significant change in crypt number per intestinal circumference is apparent at this stage although crypt size progressively decreases due to continued normal migration of crypt transit and differentiated cells from the crypt into the epithelial lining of the villus. Resumption of mitotic activity at 36 48 hours is associated with a rapid depletion of crypt stem cell clonogens and reduction in the crypt number per circumference. The mechanism of stem cell depletion has not been fully established.

The lethality of GI stem cell clonogens is best assessed by the number of crypts surviving at 3.5 days after radiation exposure which decreases exponentially as the dose increases C. S. Potten and M. Loeffler 110 4 1001 1990 H. R. Withers 28 1 75 1971 and J. G. Maj F. Paris A. Haimovitz Friedman et al. 63 4338 2003 . Crypts that contain surviving stem cells proliferate at an accelerated rate producing typical regenerative crypts that split or bud to generate new crypts until the intestinal mucosa regains a normal architecture. TBI experiments in several mouse models have demonstrated that the number of surviving crypt stem cells after exposure to 8 12 Gy is usually sufficient to support a complete recovery of the mucosa. At higher doses however massive stem cell clonogen loss may lead to a near total collapse of the crypt villus system mucosal denudation and animal death from the GI syndrome. The threshold dose for inducing the GI death and the TBI dose producing 50 GI lethality LD appear to be strain specific. Autopsy studies of C57BL 6 mice exposed to TBI revealed that 25 of the mice exposed to 14 Gy and 100 of those exposed 15 Gy succumbed to the GI syndrome at 6.8 0.99 days predicting an LDfor GI death between 14 and 15 Gy. In contrast the reported LD the LDat day 6 serving as a surrogate marker for GI death for BALB c mice is 8.8 0.72 Gy 11.7 0.22 Gy for BDF1 mice 12.5 0.1 Gy for C3H He mice 14.9 Gy 95 confidence limits 13.9 16.0 Gy for C3H SPF mice and 16.4 1.2 Gy for B6CF1 mice indicating a strain specific spectrum in mouse sensitivity to death from the GI syndrome. Strain variations in the sensitivity of other organs to radiation such as the bone marrow and lung have also been reported.

Classically ionizing radiation IR was thought to kill cells by direct damage to genomic DNA causing genomic instability and resulting in reproductive cell death. Haimovitz Friedman et al. demonstrated in a nuclei free system that apoptotic signaling can alternately be generated by the interaction of IR with cellular membranes. Extension of these studies by us and described herein revealed that ceramide mediated raft clustering is involved in IR induced apoptosis and clonogenic cell death. It has long been accepted that the clonogenic compartment of the gastrointestinal GI mucosa is the specific and direct target for radiation in inducing GI damage.

In some of our early work we showed that greater protection against ultra violet radiation with UV C 5 50 J m and anti Fas 1 50 ng ml CH 11 induced apoptosis in vitro was obtained by inducing ceramide neutralization with anti ceramide monoclonal antibody combined with cholesterol depletion induced by nystatin in Jurkat cells than was obtained using either agent alone. H. Grassme H. Schwarz and E. Gulbins Biochem Biophys Res Commun 284 4 1016 2001 incorporated herein by reference. In these studies we showed that preincubation of Jurkat cells with anti ceramide antibody in combination with nystatin inhibited raft clustering 1 min post 50 J mUV C or 50 ng ml anti Fas stimulation. Furthermore inhibiting raft clustering by anti ceramide and nystatin combination treatment attenuated UV C 5 50 J m and anti Fas 1 50 ng ml CH 11 induced apoptosis 4 hours post stimulation and enhanced cell viability by 2.46 and 2.42 fold respectively 7 days post stimulation with 50 J mUV C or 50 ng anti Fas. Importantly we also observed that anti ceramide and nystatin pretreatment yielded an approximate 1 log increase in clonogenic cell survival compared to vehicle controls after 5 50 J mUV C or anti Fas stimulation. Plotting these clonogenic survival data according to the single hit multitarget model revealed that pretreatment with anti ceramide and nystatin increased the Dof the dose response curve from 1.6 0.7 J mto 3.6 1.1 J m indicating significant p

There is evidence for a conditional linkage between crypt stem cell clonogen lethality after single dose radiation and the early wave of ASMase mediated apoptosis in the endothelium of the intestinal microvascular system. Radiation induces rapid translocation of a secretory non lysosomal form of ASMase into glycosphingolipid and cholesterol enriched rafts in the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane E. Gulbins and R. Kolesnick 22 45 7070 2003 where ceramide is rapidly generated coordinating transmembrane signaling of apoptosis. Endothelial cells are 20 fold enriched in secretory ASMase compared with other cells in the body and this cell type is particularly sensitive to radiation induced apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. Genetic inactivation of ASMase in SV129 C57BL 6 mice or intravenous treatment of C57BL 6 mice with the endothelial cell survival factor bFGF prior to whole body irradiation TBI attenuated radiation induced endothelial apoptosis of the intestinal microvascular system preserved crypt stem cell clonogens and protected mice against lethality from the GI syndrome F. Paris Z. Fuks A. Kang et al. 293 5528 293 2001 . Given that the intestinal endothelium but not crypt epithelial cells expressed bFGF receptor transcripts before or after irradiation vascular dysfunction appeared critical for radiation induced GI damage.

This section describes our experiments showing that both asmase and Bax mice are resistant to endothelial apoptosis occurring within 4 hours of total body irradiation TBI . This allows the repair of sublethal lesions incurred by crypt clonogens regenerating the crypt villus system and abrogating the lethal GI syndrome. The well characterized parameters of the GI syndrome make this system an ideal model for study of ceramide targeting pharmaceuticals. Below we show that anti ceramide antibody attenuated microvascular apoptosis to the level similar to that of the asmase genotype promoting clonogenic crypt stem cell survival and GI regeneration. Anti ceramide protected 60 of mice receiving 15 Gy TBI and syngeneic BMT demonstrating that the microvascular protection is biologically relevant.

Previous studies identified an endothelial stem cell clonogen linkage in the GI radiation response of the C57BL 6 mouse strain and its SV129 C57BL 6 hybrid. Further these studies characterized the role of ASMase in the GI radiation response in the SV129 C57BL 6 hybrid strain. F. Paris et al. supra. To examine whether genetic inactivation of ASMase protects C57BL 6 from the vascular component in the intestinal response to radiation several of the features that characterize the SV129 C57BL 6 mice intestinal response to radiation were evaluated in asmase and asmase C57BL 6 mice. Typical histologic examples of the pattern of endothelial response to radiation in asmase and asmase genotypes in this strain are shown . Consistent with published observations on SV129 C57BL 6 mice wild type C57BL 6 mice show extensive endothelial apoptosis at 4 hours after 15Gy TBI 12 apoptotic endothelial nuclei in the villus lamina propria second panel reduced in the asmase and Bax specimen to 3 apoptotic nuclei each third and fourth panel respectively . Only occasional 1 3 apoptotic nuclei were observed in the lamina propria of an unirradiated control asmase first panel asmase or Bax not shown . Endothelial cell apoptosis was detected in the wild type mucosa as early as at 3 hours after exposure to 15Gy and reached a maximum at 4 hours not shown . displays a frequency histogram of apoptotic nuclei in the intestinal lamina propria of C57BL 6 mice at 4 hours after exposure to escalating doses of TBI. A maximal effect was observed in the asmase mucosa at 15Gy with 92 of the villae displaying 3 apoptotic nuclei villus and 52 displaying extensive apoptosis 10 apoptotic nuclei villus compared to 3 apoptotic nuclei villus observed in control unirradiated mice p3 apoptotic nuclei villus to 38 and the frequency of extensive apoptosis to 20 of the total villae p

As reported for SV129 C57BL 6 mice J. G. Maj F. Paris A. Haimovitz Friedman et al. 63 4338 2003 endothelial apoptosis closely correlated with survival of crypt stern cell clonogens after TBI. shows typical cross sections of C57BL 6 mice proximal jejunum at 3.5 days after exposure to 15Gy TBI. When unirradiated the number of crypts intestinal circumference in this strain was 155 1.1. After exposure to 15Gy a specimen from a C57BL 6 mouse shown contained only 3 surviving regenerating crypts compared with 27 in the specimen obtained from a C57BL 6 littermate. ASMase deficiency significantly increased the crypt surviving fraction at each dose within the range of 10 15Gy p

The stem cell clonogen protection afforded by ASMase deletion also translated into protection against C57BL 6 mouse death from the GI syndrome after 15Gy TBI similar to that reported for hybrid SV129 C57BL 6 mice. By contrast p53 deficient C57BL 6 mice were not protected from radiation damage data not shown. C57BL 6 mice died at 5 6 mean 5.3 0.2 days after TBI not shown . Autopsies revealed intestinal damage typical of the GI syndrome extensive denudation of nearly all the crypts and villae with only partial damage to the bone marrow regions of hemorrhage and depletion of hematopoietic elements mixed with islands of normal hematopoietic tissue left and right middle panels respectively . Other organs were found intact except for thymic and lymphatic tissues and occasional micro abscesses or focal hemorrhages in various organs not considered as direct causes of death. In contrast C57BL 6 mice died at 7.75 0.12 days p

To eliminate the possibility that an event other than endothelial cell apoptosis induced by radiation and regulated by ASMase might impact the lethality of radiation injured stern cell clonogens. Experiments were carried out with the apoptosis refractory Bax deficient C57BL 6 mice that express wild type ASMase and mimic the asmase radiation phenotype in tumor endothelium an in oocytes of young mice. Bax and Bak are prototypical proapoptotic Bcl 2 multidomain proteins. Double deletions homozygous recessive Bax and Bak mutations were previously believed to be required to endow resistance to apoptotic stimuli. Data for Bak deficient mice is not shown.

The wild type C57BL 6 strain used in these experiments displayed no detectable baseline endothelial cell apoptosis and underwent a time dependent increase after exposure to 15Gy TBI that peaked at 4 hours not shown . 85 of the villae contained 3 endothelial apoptotic nuclei villus at 4 hours after 15 Gy and 38 showed an extensive 10 apoptotic nuclei villus apoptotic response . Bax deficiency significantly reduced the overall radiation induced apoptotic response to 45 p

The stem cell clonogen protection provided by Bax deletion was associated with protection against mouse death from the GI syndrome similar to that reported for SV129 C57BL 6 mice. Autologous bone marrow transplantation BMT protected 100 of C57B1 6 and C57B1 6 mice exposed to 13 Gy TBI from BM death . Control animals exposed to these TBI doses but not receiving BMT succumbed to BM death with fully repaired 12 Gy or near completely repaired 13 Gy GI mucosa Table 1 . Table 1 shows that genetic inactivation of Bax or pharmacologic antagonism of ceramide by anti ceramide antibody inhibits the lethal GI syndrome. Autopsies of total body irradiated C57BL 6 mice of Bax or Bax genotype and C57BL 6 mice administered anti ceramide antibody or irrelevant IgM control revealed Bax and ceramide signaling are required for the lethal GI syndrome. BM and GI lethality was assessed by histopathologic examination of H E stained 5 m sections of proximal jejunum and femur. GI lethality was characterized by complete denudation of villus and crypts and BM lethality was characterized by depletion of hematopoietic elements from the BM cavity and massive hemorrhage. denotes accelerated BM aplasia and mixed BM and GI death.

A switch to death from the GI syndrome occurred in C57B1 6 mice at 14 Gy TBI with 90 of BMT untreated mice succumbing to this mode of death at 7.7 0.8 days Table 1 . Thus the C57BL 6 substrain harboring the Bax genotype exhibited an approximate 1Gy increase in GI radiosensitivity compared to previously reported data for a wild type C57BL 6 mouse colony F. Paris Z. Fuks A. Kang et al. 293 5528 293 2001 . Bax deficiency protected from GI death after 14 Gy TBI Table 1 with autopsies showing hyperplastic chromophilic crypts covering most of the intestinal surface indicative of advanced regeneration of the intestinal mucosa and typical changes of BM death. These findings are consistent with the levels of crypt stem cell clonogen survival in C57B1 6 mice reported above and the observation of a regenerating intestinal mucosa is probably associated with prolongation of survival of these mice 8.4 0.5 days Table 1 which presumably enabled initiation of mucosal recovery. Autologous BMT permanently rescued 60 of C57B1 6 mice exposed to 14 Gy TBI p

Certain embodiments of the invention are directed to methods for treating or preventing radiation damage or GI syndrome and the other enumerated diseases that are discussed below in a subject by administering an antisense nucleotide or siRNA that inhibits the endogenous expression of the target protein ASMase or Bak or Bax in the patient. Other embodiments are directed to methods to treat or prevent radiation disease or GI syndrome by administering imipramine in amounts that ameliorate one or more symptoms of the disease. A therapeutic amount of antisense that inhibits ASMase for example or imipramine can be determined by routine experimentation as an amount that reduces ASMase activity or expression in a biological sample from a human or mammalian subject compared to pretreatment levels.

The respective antisense nucleotide is one wherein at least a portion of the antisense nucleotide typically 8 50 consecutive nucleotides is complementary to and specifically hybridizes with the gene or mRNA encoding the target ASMase Bax or Bak. The GenBank accession number for ASMase is NP 000534 incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO 1. The GenBank accession number for Bax is NP 004315.1 incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO 2. The GenBank accession number for Bak is NP 001179.1 incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO 3. As is described below a person of skill in the art can design a variety of antisense nucleotides and siRNAs to disrupt either transcription or translation of the target gene or mRNA respectively to reduce expression of ASMase Bax or Bak. Antisense nucleic acids for use in this invention therapeutically to treat or prevent the enumerated diseases include cDNA antisense DNA antisense RNA and small interfering RNA that are sufficiently complementary to the target gene or mRNA encoding the target protein to permit specific hybridization to the respective gene or mRNA thereby reducing expression of the target protein in the animal compared to pretreatment levels.

In particular embodiments the enumerated diseases are treated or prevented by administering a therapeutic amount of an antisense nucleic acid from 8 50 nucleotides in length that specifically hybridizes to SEQ ID NO. 2 which is the cDNA sequence for human ASMase Accession No. NM 000543 or SEQ ID NO. 4 which is the CDNA sequence for human Bax Accession No. NM 138761 or SEQ ID NO 5 which is the cDNA sequence for human BAK Accession No. NM 001188. In another embodiment the antisense is directed to various regions of the respective genomic DNAs that would block transcription of the respective gene ASMase SEQ ID NO. 7 Bax SEQ ID NO 8 or Bak SEQ ID NO 9. A patient could be treated with a combination of these antisense nucleic acids in a single preparation or in different preparations administered on the same or different days to reduce expression of ASMase protein sequence SEQ ID NO. 1 or Bax protein sequence SEQ ID NO.3 or Bak protein sequence SEQ ID NO. 5 . Alternatively treatment could be achieved by administering the appropriate siRNA to reduce expression of one or more of the targeted proteins ASMase Bax or Bak. More details regarding antisense technology are set forth below.

For the purpose of this invention a therapeutically effective amount of a compound is an amount that achieves the desired biologic or therapeutic effect namely an amount that prevents reduces or ameliorates one or more symptoms of the enumerated diseases being treated or prevented. A starting point for determining an effective therapeutic amount of antisense or siRNA is an amount that reduces expression of the targeted protein ASMase or Bax or Bak in a biological sample taken from a subject. The therapeutic amount of imipramine can be similarly determined.

We conducted in vitro studies in Jurkat T cells showing that sequestration of ceramide with anti ceramide antibody inhibited ceramide mediated raft clustering thereby attenuating apoptosis and improving clonogenic survival . To determine the in vivo effects of anti ceramide on radiation induced apoptosis 100 g the commercially sold mouse anti ceramide antibody MID 15B4 or isotype control IgM was administered intravenously to C57BL 6 mice 30 min prior to 15 Gy TBI. Anti ceramide infusion abrogated endothelial apoptosis 4 hrs post 15 Gy decreasing the incidence of massive apoptosis 10 apoptotic cells per villus from 56.9 in IgM treated controls to 13.7 and D pharmacologically recapitulating the protection afforded by genetic inactivation of ASMase 14.9 . These findings showed that anti ceramide mediated protection of endothelium impacted GI stem cell lethality and thereby enhance overall animal survival. Antagonism of endothelial apoptosis enhanced survival of crypt stem cell clonogens evidenced by increased incidence of surviving crypts 3.5 days following 15 Gy irradiation. As anti ceramide attenuated endothelial apoptosis pharmacologically recapitulating the asmase phenotype we tested the impact on crypt survival. Pretreatment of C57BL 6 mice with anti ceramide prior to 15 Gy TBI resulted in a crypt surviving fraction of 1.3 10 over 1 log of protection over the 9.3 10surviving fraction exhibited by littermates treated with irrelevant IgM prior to 15 Gy TBI . Irrelevant IgM antibody did not impact crypt survival compared with untreated C57BL 6 controls. Anti ceramide antibody increased crypt survival to similar levels as genetic inhibition of ASMase 1.2 10 demonstrating that pharmacologic inhibition of ceramide signaling mimics the protection afforded by genetic inactivation of ASMase on crypt clonogen lethality in vivo. It should be noted that Bax and Bak deficiencies did not impact the p53 mediated epithelial apoptosis at crypt positions 4 5. Moreover Bax and Bak do not overlap functionally in the intestinal microvascular system. Additional support can be found in J. A. Rotolo et al Int. J. Radiation Oncology Biol. Phys. Vol. 70 No. 3 804 815 2008 incorporated herein by reference.

To assess whether anti ceramide administration could recapitulate the asmase phenotype and increase animal survival following 15 Gy C57BL 6 mice were pretreated with 50 100 g anti ceramide antibody or irrelevant IgM control and subjected to 15 Gy TBI. Within 16 hrs of irradiation mice were administered 3 10autologous bone marrow cells intravenously. Consistent with previously published data 15 Gy was 100 lethal in C57BL 6 control of IgM treated mice by day 7. Anti ceramide antibody increased survival in a dose dependent manner with 100 g anti ceramide pretreatment resulting in 60 survival 120 days following irradiation . These findings correlate closely to the survival of asmase mice administered autologous BMT following 15 Gy F. Paris Z. Fuks A. Kang et al. 293 5528 293 2001 . Autopsies revealed that mice receiving control IgM died with extensive intestinal damage including completely denuded crypts and villi with only partial damage to the bone marrow not shown . These findings are consistent with death from the GI syndrome. Conversely autopsies of mice that died following anti ceramide pretreatment revealed typical characteristics of bone marrow death including extensive hemorrhage and near complete depletion of hematopoietic elements not shown . These mice exhibited intestinal mucosa in regenerative states containing hyperplastic chromophilic crypts covering most of the intestinal surface. shows micrographs of small intestine obtained 4 hrs following 15 Gy irradiation were stained by TUNEL. Apoptotic cells are indicated by brown stained nuclei. Data mean SEM were obtained from minimum 150 villi from two independent experiments. These data demonstrate that anti ceramide antibody effectively antagonizes ceramide signaling in vivo recapitulating the asmase phenotype pharmacologically and protecting against radiation induced disease and GI syndrome

Based on this evidence for the role of extracellular ceramide in apoptosis certain embodiments of the invention are directed to methods for treating or preventing radiation induced disease and GI syndrome by administering a therapeutic amount of one or more anti ceramide antibodies or a biologically active fragment thereof preferably humanized forms. These antibodies can be polyclonal or monoclonal. In a preferred embodiment the anti ceramide antibody is monoclonal 2A2 antibody or a biologically active fragment thereof described below preferably in humanized form. A new and effective monoclonal anti ceramide antibody we discovered called 2A2 IgM is described in detail below. Previous work described above showed that statins nystatin also had beneficial effects in reducing apoptosis in in vitro models. Therefore certain other embodiments include administering a therapeutic amount of an anti ceramide antibody or biologically active fragment thereof and one or more statins administered alone or in combination to treat or prevent GI syndrome. The therapeutic agents described herein for combination therapy can be administered on the same or on consecutive days.

Statins include any of a group of drugs that lower the amount of cholesterol and certain fats in the blood. Statins inhibit a key enzyme that helps make cholesterol. The statins are divided into two groups fermentation derived and synthetic. The statins include in alphabetical order brand names vary in different countries 

A flow chart of the strategy used to generate novel anti ceramide antibodies with potent in vivo activity is shown in . In order to make the antibody we first needed to develop an antigen that was immunogenic enough t o generate a strong antibody response from an inoculated host. BSA conjugated ceramide was generated by synthesizing BSA conjugated Cfatty acid onto a sphingoid base. inset. Validation of the Antigen for antibody screening was performed by ELISA assay in which decreasing amounts of Antigen were fixed to a plate. After blocking each well the plate was then incubated with anti ceramide MID15B4 antibody 1 100 commercially available from Axxora LLC San Diego Calif. followed by horseradish peroxidase conjugated anti mouse IgM. OD was assessed following administration of HRP substrate at 650 nm. The BSA ceramide ELISA identified enhanced binding activity in supernatant 3673 following immunization with Kaposi sarcoma cells. . Binding of plasma samples obtained from immunized mice by ELISA at 1 100 dilution identified higher binding of ceramide by sample 3673 vs. 3674. Binding activity remained following immortalization of antibody producing B cells sn73 I C6 enabling the isolation of monoclonal 2A2 IgM with anti ceramide binding activity not shown . Karposi immunization was intended to generate a strong immune response which would result in generation of a panel of antibody producing B cells. The antibody containing supernatant from the hybridomas generated from these B cells was then screened against the BSA ceramide ELISA. Supernatants that tested positive in the assay were isolated eventually resulting in purification of clone 2A2. More details are set forth in Example 4.

Purified monoclonal 2A2 antibody was isolated from supernatant 3673. Elisa revealed that the 2A2 mouse monoclonal IgM bound to BSA ceramide. . Elisa showed significantly more binding capacity of 2A2 vs. control IgM. We show that the 2A2 antibody works in vivo and we were able to humanize it for clinical use. Methods for humanizing the antibody and others are set forth in Example 1.

Consistent with our earlier observations in vitro with commercial antibodies purified 2A2 antibody antagonized radiation induced apoptosis in vitro. Preincubation of Jurkat cells with 2A2 monoclonal anti ceramide antibody 25 100 micrograms mL inhibited 8 Gy induced apoptosis. quantified as in . Calculation of apoptosis inhibition was performed relative to the mean apoptosis of untreated Jurkat cells prior to 8 Gy. Other anti ceramide antibodies 1H4 15D9 and 5H9 generated by immunization of mice with Cceramide can be humanized using techniques known in the art and come within the scope of this invention for treatment or prevention of GI syndrome and also GvHD autoimmune diseases and inflammation which are discussed below.

In the next series of experiments we showed that 2A2 enhanced crypt survival following 15 Gy in vivo. Pretreatment of C57BL 6 mice with increasing doses of 2A2 anti ceramide 0 750 micrograms improved crypt survival at the critical 3.5 day time point following 15 Gy TBI. . 2A2 anti ceramide antibody increased crypt survival following 8 15 Gy total body irradiation by a dose modifying factor DMF of 1.2. . Crypt survival was determined as in . In our animal experiments we used 750 micrograms of antibody per 35 gram mouse. The location of ceramide on the surface of activated T cells is particularly important for treating or preventing any of the enumerated diseases using antibody therapy because this target protein is accessible to the antibodies.

In other experiments we discovered that anti 2A2 antibody also improved survival of C57BL 6 mice exposed to 14 17 Gy single dose radiation. . C57BL 6 mice were irradiated with 14 17 Gy TBI with or without 750 micrograms 2A2 15 min prior to IR. Mice were infused with 3 10autologous bone marrow cells within 16 hour of IR. Survival was monitored and expressed via Kaplan Meier parameters. Statistical significance P

Over a range of exposures we found that 2A2 antibody attenuated radiation induced GI death in vivo recapitulating the asmase phenotype. Necropsy results of mice sacrificed when moribund from survival studies performed in . GI death was assessed when proximal jejunum specimen appear 90 denuded of crypt villi units and crypt regeneration is absent. Bone marrow BM death was assessed when decalcified femur sections reveal depletion of hematopoietic elements and massive hemorrhage.

These results support embodiments of the present invention directed to the 2A2 antibody itself or fragment or variant thereof preferably in humanized form. In another preferred embodiment the human 2A2 antibody or fragment thereof is administered in a therapeutically effective amount to treat or prevent radiation damage or GI syndrome. Where antibody is used herein it is also meant to include antibody fragments or variants as described below. Certain other embodiments are directed to a composition comprising an anti ceramide antibody preferably humanized more preferably 2A2 and a statin in an amount that decreases circulating cholesterol levels thereby increasing the efficacy of the anti ceramide antibody. Another embodiment is directed to treating or preventing radiation damage or GI syndrome by administering imipramine and ASMase inhibitor presently used as an antipsychotic agent either alone or in combination with anti ceramide antibodies and or statins. Another embodiment is a composition that includes the 2A2 antibody and imipramine or antisense or siRNA that targets ASMase or Bak.

Routine experimentation will determine the therapeutically effective amount of humanized monoclonal anti ceramide antibody to use. The amount of anti ceramide antibody to be administered therapeutically ranges from about lug to 100 ug ml. This amount typically varies and can be an amount sufficient to achieve serum therapeutic agent levels typically of between about 1 microgram per milliliter and about 10 micrograms per milliliter in the subject. In the context of the present invention anti ceramide antibodies are a type of neutralizing antibody that prevents ceramide from blocking apoptosis.

As will be described below we also discovered that 2A2 antibody improved survival after BMT by reducing GvHD and reduced the typical cytokine storm seen with GvHD.

We discovered other monoclonal antibodies made in mice that were immunized with BSA ceramide that when screened in a Jurkat cell apoptosis inhibition assay and showed protective effects that were dose dependent and comparable to 2A2. The isotypes of the three antibodies have been established. 15D9 mAb is IgM kappa. 1H4 and 5H9 mAbs are mIgG3 kappa. .

Certain embodiments of the invention are directed to these monoclonal antibodies 15D9 1H4 and 5H9 and to fragments or variants thereof preferably humanized for therapeutic use to treat radiation induced diseases or GI syndrome and as will be shown below also GvHD other autoimmune diseases and inflammation. Other embodiments are directed to pharmaceutical compositions that include these monoclonal antibodies fragments or variants preferably in humanized form and optional alos imipramine or statins or both.

One of the discoveries we made is that immunizing the host mice with Karposi Sarcoma cells as described in Example 4 generated effective anti ceramide monoclonal antibodies with dramatic therapeutic effects as shown for example with the 2A2 antibody. We chose KS cells because for immunization because they recapitulate activated endothelium which we have shown is ceramide rich. Because we immunized with activated cells and not just with a pure ceramide antigen the monoclonals we generated may cross react with other proteins besides ceramide. By cross react in this application is meant that the monoclonals may react with other proteins or protein complexes besides ceramide. For example the epitope on ceramide that these monoclonals react with i.e. have affinity for may be shared with other cell surface proteins. Alternatively other proteins may have a similar conformation at the antigenic site or the epitope may be part of a complex that displays the ceramide. Therefore certain other embodiments of the invention are directed broadly to monoclonal antibodies that cross react with ceramide wherein the antibodies are obtained by immunizing the host with whole cells. Humanized monoclonals including fragments are a preferred embodiment. The immunoglobulin subtype can be any subtype IgG IgM are preferred but also IgA IgE etc. may be effective.

The results presented below show for the first time that ASMase generated ceramide is required for GVHD therefore certain embodiments are directed to pharmacological methods to treat or prevent GVHD by blocking ASMase for example with imipramine or with antisense nucleic acids or inactivate this cell surface ceramide for example with anti ceramide antibodies .

Autoimmune disorders are sustained adaptive immune responses directed against self antigens. T cells recognize self antigens as foreign due to incompatibilities between T cell and tissue major histocompatibility complex MHC molecules and or minor histocompatibilty antigens mHAGs cell surface molecules expressed on most cell types. Activated T cells directed against self antigens inflict tissue damage and chronic inflammation directly via cytotoxic T cells CTLs or indirectly via antibody generation by T cell help to self reactive B cells . Acute graft versus host disease GvHD the primary complication of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is a unique autoimmune like disorder arising from the differentiation and activation of alloreactive donor T cells infused into an immunoablated host. In acute GvHD recognition of alloantigens major or minor mismatched of the host by donor T cells initiates an adaptive immune response including incipient damage to host tissue and Type I cytokine IFN and IL 2 generation. This results in CTL clonal expansion and activation that along with a developing macrophage dependent cytokine storm comprised of inflammatory cytokines TNF and IL 1 D. A. Wall and K. C. Sheehan 57 2 273 1994 G. R. Hill W. Krenger and J. L. Ferrara 3 4 257 1997 J. L. Ferrara 21 Suppl 3 S13 1998 induces apoptosis in a select set of target cells A. C. Gilliam D. Whitaker Menezes R. Korngold et al. 107 3 377 1996 and consequent damage to associated target organs liver intestines and skin D. A. Wall supra G. F. Murphy D. Whitaker J. Sprent et al. 138 4 983 1991 . Common symptoms of acute GvHD include severe weight loss diarrhea liver disease rash and jaundice. is a cartoon illustrating the immunopathology of GvHD.

High dose chemotherapy and radiation used in the treatment of many types of leukemia and lymphomas additionally kill rapidly dividing bone marrow cells stem cells resulting in immunoablation and necessitating reconstitution of haematopoietic elements. Bone marrow transplantation BMT is a common and effective therapy for immune reconstitution in these patients as well as treatment for immune disorders including aplastic anemia and severe combined immunodeficiency in which infusion of bone marrow stem cells can correct deficiencies in red blood T and or B cells. GvHD is the major complication associated with BMT occurring in 30 of MHC matched 50 of single MHC disparate and 70 of double MHC disparate BMTs from related donors and even higher when a non related donor is used. Despite extensive research there is no good treatment. Acute GvHD typically develops within 3 months of BMT during which specific organs including the gut skin and liver are targeted by cytotoxic T cells. Until now the clinically relevant strategies available to control GvHD are limited to T cell depletion from the allograft or non specific immunosuppression aimed to control donor T cell expansion and activation approaches that increase the likelihood of infection or neoplastic relapse in already immunocompromised patients.

Pharmacologic and genetic tools have enabled identification of several key mediators of CTL induced apoptotic cell death at the cellular level. Liver intestinal and skin apoptosis during acute GvHD is primarily mediated via CTL attack of host tissue via Fas Fas ligand FasL H. Kuwahara Y. Tani Y. Ogawa et al. 99 3 340 2001 C. Schmaltz O. Alpdogan K. J. Horndasch et al. 97 9 2886 2001 K. Hattori T. Hirano H. Miyajima et al. 91 11 4051 1998 and TNF TNFR pathways with minimal contribution from perforin granzyme mediated cell lysis. Inhibition of TNF superfamily receptor signaling largely attenuated acute GvHD associated mortality in major and minor mismatched models of murine allogeneic BMT either by genetic inactivation of donor T cell Fas ligand or TNF or antibody mediated neutralization of their cognate receptors CD95 Fas and TNFR respectively. These studies established an essential role for death receptor signaling in donor CTL function in the pathogenesis of acute GvHD and suggested that promiscuous inhibition of TNF superfamily signaling might provide potent protection from GvH associated pathology.

A number of recent studies identify a role for the sphingomyelin pathway and its second messenger ceramide in autoimmune liver and GI toxicities. Genetic inactivation of ASMase abrogates autoimmune mouse models of phytohemagglutin PHA induced Fas dependent autoimmune hepatitis during which induction of FasL on lymphocytes results in selective killing of hepatocytes expressing Fas and activation of the HIV receptor gp120 by anti CD4 antibody in which depletion of CD4 T cells occurs due to upregulation of Fas and FasL on these cells. Further evidence indicates that ceramide generation on the exoplasmic leaflet of the cell membrane occurs rapidly in the course of ischemia reperfusion injury L. Llacuna M. Mari C. Garcia Ruiz et al. 44 3 561 2006 and TNF induced hepatocyte apoptosis that leads to cirrhosisand radiation induced GI toxicity that has already been discussed using standardized animal models for these disease entities.

Acute GvHD the primary complication of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is a well defined autoimmune like disorder mediated by donor cytolytic T cell attack on host tissue. To evaluate the contribution of target cell ASMase and ceramide in CTL mediated tissue injury and mortality during acute GvHD a minor histocompatability incompatible allogeneic BM transplantation model of LP J donor H 2 into C57BL 6 recipient H 2 was selected. Lethally irradiated C57BL 6 hosts of asmase or asmase background received 5 10T cell depleted TCD LP J BM cells and GvHD was induced by the addition of 3 10LP J donor splenic T cells to the allograft. Transplantation of donor LP J BM and T cells induced the development of GvHD in all recipients albeit with reduced effect in asmase recipients as determined by Kaplan Meier survival and clinical GvHD score curves. GvHD survival was increased from 28.6 in asmase recipients of BM and T cells to 84.6 in asmase recipients p

GvH induced mortality is associated with injury to select organs including the ileum liver and skin. Example 2 describes experiments showing that ASMase is required for GvHD target organ injury and apoptosis. Experiments in Example 2 show that ASMase deficiency largely protected GvHD associated organ damage decreasing scoring to 10.2 0.5 and 7 0.1 in liver and small intestines respectively Table 1 p

Additional experiments described in Example 3 show that ASMase deficiency attenuated the cytokine storm associated with GvHD and inflammation generally thus protecting the host from inflammation. The experiments showed that ASMase inactivation attenuated Th1 Th2 cytokine profile and CD8 T cell proliferation in acute GvHD in recipients of allogeneic BM and T cells. Our data showed deficient in vivo CD8 CTL proliferation in asmase hosts and biologically relevant consequences to the attenuation of serum proinflammatory cytokine levels in these BMT recipients having GvHD. Thus the in vivo data confirm a role for ASMase in GvH associated morbidity mortality and target organ damage. The impact of host ASMase deficiency affects GvHD pathophysiology primarily by to altering systemic factors i.e. cytokines number of circulating T cells and not by inactivation of T cell killing.

To assess whether ceramide mediated raft clustering into membrane platforms is an essential component of cytolytic T cell CTL induced apoptosis of hepatocytes we blocked raft clustering pharmacologically and examined the impact on alloactivated CTL induced hepatocyte apoptosis in vitro. To investigate whether ASMase deficiency renders target cells directly resistant to CTL induced apoptosis GvHD mediated target cell lysis was deconstructed in a 2 cell ex vivo model using alloactivated splenic CTL effectors freshly isolated from mice exhibiting active GvHD and naive C57BL 6 hepatocytes. Hepatocytes were chosen as target cells in this assay because they are a critical target for GvHD and utilize the sphingomyelin pathway for apoptosis. Under the conditions of our assay 0.5 10hepatocytes were co incubated with 0 2 10alloactive splenic T cells isolated from LP J BM T cells B6 recipients. Co incubation induced increased hepatocyte apoptosis from a baseline of 4.7 0.7 to 33.8 1.9 by 16 hr as detected by nuclear morphologic changes . Consistent with data from a number of in vivo studies B6.MRL.lpr hepatocytes lacking a functional Fas receptor were resistant to this mode of CTL induced apoptosis left panel while selective inhibition of the granule exocytosis mediated cytolytic pathway by 2 hr incubation with 100 ng ml CMA had no effect on hepatocyte apoptosis right panel . These studies indicate that CTL mediated hepatocyte apoptosis in this model requires Fas but not perforin granzyme signaling. Although prior studies showed that Fas levels were unaltered in asmase hepatocytes asmase hepatocytes were nonetheless resistant to apoptosis in the ex vivo GvHD model at all doses of allogeneic effector T cells from 0.1 2 10 and at all times from 4 48 hr data not shown .

Whereas Fas mediated apoptotic death receptor activation requires generation of ceramide rich platforms in some cell systems CTL induced platform generation was assessed in asmase and asmase hepatocytes in the ex vivo model of GvHD. Alloactivated T cells induced rapid generation of ceramide rich platforms on the surface of the target hepatocytes 10 min following co incubation . Platform generation increased within one minute peaked at 10 min and persisted for over 60 min . Fas required for apoptosis in this system concentrated within the ceramide rich platform as determined by confocal microscopy. In contrast asmase hepatocytes were completely resistant to ceramide rich platform formation and quantified in and Fas concentration therein demonstrating that CTL induced platform generation in hepatocytes was ASMase dependent. Concomitantly CTLs induced a 1.5 0.1 fold overall increase in ceramide signal as determined by mean fluorescence intensity per pixel in asmase hepatocytes p

To demonstrate that hepatocyte apoptosis was specifically ceramide dependent and not a consequence of ASMase deficiency we added sub apoptotic concentrations of exogenous C ceramide up to 500 nM to asmase hepatocytes in the ex vivo GvHD assay. Consistent with restoration of platform generation in human asmase lymphocytes by low dose long chain natural ceramide a sublethal dose of exogenous C ceramide 200 nM restored platform formation in CTL treated asmase hepatocytes to 46.3 1.3 of cells demonstrating that ASMase mediated ceramide generation drives platform formation. C ceramide nearly completely restored CTL induced apoptosis to asmase hepatocytes bypassing the requirement for target cell ASMase. In contrast C dihydroceramide the biologically inactive analog of C ceramide failed to restore CTL induced platform generation not shown or hepatocyte apoptosis . These data demonstrate unequivocally that CTL induced hepatocyte apoptosis ex vivo requires target cell ceramide generation for efficient cell death induction consistent with in vivo protection from acute GvHD observed in asmase mice. Furthermore pharmacologic disruption of cell surface rafts sites of sphingomyelin concentration with the cholesterol chelating agent nystatin abrogated CTL induced ceramide rich platform generation not shown and completely inhibited 2 10alloactivated CTL induced hepatocyte apoptosis . Exogenous C ceramide was unable to overcome cholesterol chelation suggesting that ceramide rich platform formation requires functional rafts for signaling possibly serving as a site for pre assembly of the apoptotic machinery.

To show the generic role of target cell ASMase in T cell induced lysis we used two standardized assays for T cell function MLR primed CTL induced splenocyte lysis and in vitro activation induced cell death AICD of T cells . The role of target cell ASMase was assessed in an in vitro activated MLR in which C57BL 6 splenocyte target cells of asmase or asmase genotype were stimulated for 48 hrs with mitogen washed and chromium labeled. These cells were then coincubated with effector Balb c splenocytes activated for 5 days by culture with irradiated C57BL 6 splenocytes. Chromium release was quantified and the lysis was calculated. To test the ability of in vitro activated splenocytes to lyse asmase target cells Balb c effector T cells were activated by culture for 5 days with 5 10irradiated 2 Gy C57BL 6 splenocytes. Target asmase or asmase C57BL 6 splenocytes were prepared by stimulation with 10 mg ml conA for 48 hrs and Cr labeled to assess CTL mediated chromium release. Washed splenocytes cells were coincubated with increasing ratios of activated effector Balb c T cells and Cr release was quantified 6 hour thereafter. .

To evaluate a potential generic role for target cell ASMase in platform generation in T cell induced lysis we tested two standardized assays for T cell mediated cytolysis MLR primed CTL induced splenocyte lysis and in vitro AICD of T cells. For the in vitro activated splenocyte lysis assay BALB c effector T cells were stimulated by culture for 5 days with 5 10irradiated 2 Gy C57BL 6 splenocytes and thereafter coincubated with asmase or asmase target C57BL 6 splenocytes prepared by stimulation with 10 g ml conA for 48 hr. Co incubation of effector T cells with asmase target splenocytes Mitotracker Red labeled for detection resulted in rapid generation on target cells of ceramide rich platforms. Within 5 min of co incubation platform incidence on target asmase splenocytes increased from 4.7 2.1 to 25.8 6.6 p

To define a role for target cell ASMase in AICD asmase asmase or MRL.lpr FasR T cells were stimulated for 24 hr with 10 microgam ml ConA washed rested in medium containing 20 U ml rIL 2 for 24 hr and finally AICD was initiated by restimulation in medium containing 20 U ml rIL 2 and increasing concentrations of plate bound anti CD3 mAb for 24 hr. AICD induction by anti CD3 mAb conferred ceramide rich platform generation 4 hr following stimulation evident in 26.4 1.6 of the population of asmase T cells compared to 5.1 1.0 of asmase T cells p

To characterize the impact of platform generation on AICD asmase and asmase T cells were induced to undergo AICD and apoptosis was quantified 16 hr thereafter. Apoptosis in asmase T cells was anti CD3 mAb dose dependent reaching 32.9 5.2 apoptosis 16 hr post induction . In contrast apoptosis was abrogated in MRL.lpr FasR T cells confirming the requirement for Fas FasL interaction in this system. While asmase T cells were induced to proliferate by anti CD3 mAb equally well as asmase T cells and were equally effective as asmase T cells in lysis of tumor cells they displayed near complete resistance to AICD induced apoptosis in vitro. asmase splenocytes failed to undergo detectable apoptosis above background 8.8 in response to up to 10 ng ml anti CD3 p

We next looked at the effect of treatment with 2A2 anti ceramide antibody IgM on survival following allogeneic bone marrow and T cell transplantation . Using the same of LP J donor H 2 into C57BL 6 recipient H 2 model described in we demonstrate that 2A2 antibody treatment significantly reduced objective indicia of acute graft versus host disease in vivo partially recapitulating the asmase phenotype. C57BL 6 or C57BL 6 were lethally irradiated with a split dose of 1100 cGy TBI. The C57BL 6 group receiving 2A2 antibody received 750 micrograms antibody 15 min prior to the first half of split dose TBI. Thereafter all mice received intravenous injection of minor antigen mismatched LP TCD BM cells 5 10 with splenic T cells 3 10 . Survival was monitored daily and results were expressed by Kaplan Meier survival analysis. Administration of 2A2 increased animal survival 100 days following transplantation from 12.5 to 60 .

Given the role that ASMase plays in GvHD cytokine storm generation we next studied the ability of 2A2 Antibody to attenuate this adverse response. Serum was harvested from wild type asmase and 2A2 treated animals on day 7 following BMT from the group analyzed as described above . Serum interferon gamma was quantified by ELISA according to manufacturer s protocol R D Systems . Our results show that WT mice treated with 2A2 mAb responded similarly to ASMase deficient mice with an approximate 25 reduction in serum interferon gamma.

These results show that GvHD and other T cell mediated autoimmune diseases associated with an increase in pro inflammatory cytokines can be treated by administering a therapeutic amount of an anti ceramide antibody preferably 2A2 anti ceramide monoclonal IgM or a biologically active fragment thereof as is described herein. Our in vitro results showed that nystatin also decreased T cell cytolysis ex vivo support certain embodiments wherein GvHD and autoimmune diseases are treated or prevented by administering one or more statins preferably together with a humanized anti ceramide antibody such as 2A2. Other embodiments are directed to new compositions of one or more statins and one or more anti ceramide antibodies. As for treating GI syndrome routine experimentation will determine the effective amount of humanized monoclonal anti ceramide antibody to use. The amount of anti ceramide antibody to be administered therapeutically ranges from about 1 ug to 100 ug ml. This amount typically varies and can be an amount sufficient to achieve serum therapeutic agent levels typically of between about 1 microgram per milliliter and about 10 micrograms per milliliter in the subject.

The present studies define formation of ceramide rich membrane platforms in the exoplasmic leaflet of the plasma membrane of target cells as a critical step in both microvascular apoptosis of the GI following ionizing radiation and lytic attack by CTLs upon immune targets. These structures which form within seconds of stimulation are readily detected by confocal or conventional microscopy as they are quite large often reaching three microns in diameter. We have shown that genetic or pharmacologic disruption of platforms for example by blocking ASMase or Bax and by administering anti ceramide antibodies prevents radiation induced cell death in vitro and in vivo as well as CTL mediated death in three distinct cellular models of CTL induced cell killing. Treatment with monoclonal anti ceramide antibodies markedly reduced multiple aspects of the pathophysiologic response in gastrointestinal radiation toxicity and standardized major and minor mismatch models of GvHD.

The present studies provide new evidence that linkage between microvascular endothelial apoptosis and stem cell clonogen lethality is a generic mechanism for induction of radiation damage to the mouse intestines. Bax deficient mice provide evidence that it is the endothelial apoptotic response rather than another event regulated by ASMase signaling that impacts the fate of irradiated crypt stem cell clonogens. The availability of a pharmacologic that can inhibit ASMase such as imipramine antisense nucleic acids or siRNA is a valuable therapeutic in patients requiring high dose abdominal radiation with the potential of selectively antagonizing GI toxicity without impacting tumor cell kill. Another valuable therapy is the use of ceramide targeting pharmacologics such as anti ceramide antibody to antagonize raft clustering and apoptosis of the GI early in the response to accidental radiation exposure or large scale radiological incident. Lethal GI toxicity following radiation exposure for which there is no current therapeutic option is a primary concern of the National Institute of Health in lieu of the current state of world affairs.

As the results we presented here show ceramide rich platforms are required for T cell mediated autoimmune syndromes in vivo. ASMase had been shown to regulate hepatocyte apoptosis in phytohemagglutin PHA induced hepatitis a model for acute T cell mediated autoaggressive liver disorder S. Kirschnek F. Paris M. Weller et al. 275 35 27316 2000 . PHA stimulates FasL induction on lymphocytes and upon their migration to the liver hepatocytes are killed by apoptosis prompting hepatitis K. Seino N. Kayagaki K. Takeda et al. 113 4 1315 1997 . ASMase deficiency protected hepatocytes from apoptosis despite normal upregulation of lymphocyte FasL. A role for ASMase in CD4 activated T cell induced cytolysis has been reported Z. Q. Wang A. Dudhane T. Orlikowsky et al. 24 7 1549 1994 . CD4 activation by the HIV receptor molecule gp120 or by an agonistic anti CD4 antibody activates the Fas FasL system and initiates apoptosis whereas CD4 T cells deficient in ASMase were unable to undergo apoptosis upon in vivo injection of anti CD4 antibody S. Kirschnek F. Paris M. Weller et al. 275 35 27316 2000 . We have now shown that ASMase generated ceramide is universally required in cytokine mediated T cell induced apoptosis and in preventing apoptosis of endothelial microvasculature which underlies the pathology of GI syndrome . We have shown that blocking ASMase generated ceramide with anti ceramide antibodies also decreased serum proinflammatory cytokine expression. Thus any disease working through TNF superfamily receptor signaling including Fas FasL and TNF TNFR interactions can be treated or prevented by administering a therapeutic amount of an antibody that binds to the ASMase generated ceramide or by inhibition of ASMase or Bax.

The experiments described herein show for the first time that activation of host ASMase and formation of ceramide rich platforms are critical events in instigation of acute GvHD. We showed this by the marked reduction in Type I cytokine production and CTL clonal expansion steps necessary to feed forward GvHD when mismatched alloactivated CTLs are added to marrow transplants into asmase mice. As with GI syndrome although different etiologies GvHD responded to treatment with anti ceramide antibodies and blocking ASMase or Bax expression.

The benefit of inactivation of ceramide rich platforms is not restricted to Fas mediated biologic effects because other inflammatory cytokines including but not limited to TNF IL 1 and TRAIL similarly use ASMase for transmembrane signal transmission. Hence ASMase generated ceramide rich platforms represent a promiscuous target for GvHD and other immune disorders that utilize multiple cytokines to instigate pathophysiology.

An antibody refers to an intact immunoglobulin or to an antigen binding portion thereof that competes with the intact antibody for specific binding. Antigen binding portions may be produced by recombinant DNA techniques or by enzymatic or chemical cleavage of intact antibodies. Antigen binding portions include inter alia Fab Fab F ab .sub.2 Fv dAb and complementarity determining region CDR fragments single chain antibodies scFv chimeric antibodies diabodies and polypeptides that contain at least a portion of an immunoglobulin that is sufficient to confer specific antigen binding to the polypeptide.

An immunoglobulin is a tetrameric molecule. In a naturally occurring immunoglobulin each tetramer is composed of two identical pairs of polypeptide chains each pair having one light about 25 kDa and one heavy chain about 50 70 kDa . The amino terminal portion of each chain includes a variable region of about 100 to 110 or more amino acids primarily responsible for antigen recognition. The carboxy terminal portion of each chain defines a constant region primarily responsible for effector function. Human light chains are classified as .kappa. and .lamda. light chains. Heavy chains are classified as .mu. .DELTA. .gamma. .alpha. or .epsilon. and define the antibody s isotype as IgM IgD IgG IgA and IgE respectively. Within light and heavy chains the variable and constant regions are joined by a J region of about 12 or more amino acids with the heavy chain also including a D region of about 10 more amino acids. See generally Fundamental Immunology Ch. 7 Paul W. ed. 2nd ed. Raven Press N.Y. 1989 incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes . The variable regions of each light heavy chain pair form the antibody binding site such that an intact immunoglobulin has two binding sites. Immunoglobulin chains exhibit the same general structure of relatively conserved framework regions FR joined by three hypervariable regions also called complementarity determining regions or CDRs. The CDRs from the two chains of each pair are aligned by the framework regions enabling binding to a specific epitope. From N terminus to C terminus both light and heavy chains comprise the domains FR1 CDR1 FR2 CDR2 FR3 CDR3 and FR4. The assignment of amino acids to each domain is in accordance with the definitions of Kabat Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1987 and 1991 or Chothia Lesk J. Mol. Biol. 196 901 917 1987 Chothia et al. Nature 342 878 883 1989 .

An Fab fragment is a monovalent fragment consisting of the VL VH CL and CH I domains a F ab .sub.2 fragment is a bivalent fragment comprising two Fab fragments linked by a disulfide bridge at the hinge region a Fd fragment consists of the VH and CH1 domains an Fv fragment consists of the VL and VH domains of a single arm of an antibody and a dAb fragment Ward et al. Nature 341 544 546 1989 consists of a VH domain. A single chain antibody scFv is an antibody in which a VL and VH regions are paired to form a monovalent molecules via a synthetic linker that enables them to be made as a single protein chain Bird et al. Science 242 423 426 1988 and Huston et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85 5879 5883 1988 . Diabodies are bivalent bispecific antibodies in which VH and VL domains are expressed on a single polypeptide chain but using a linker that is too short to allow for pairing between the two domains on the same chain thereby forcing the domains to pair with complementary domains of another chain and creating two antigen binding sites see e.g. Holliger P. et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 6444 6448 1993 and Poljak R. J. et al. Structure 2 1121 1123 1994 . One or more CDRs may be incorporated into a molecule either covalently or noncovalently to make it an immunoadhesin. An immunoadhesin may incorporate the CDR s as part of a larger polypeptide chain may covalently link the CDR s to another polypeptide chain or may incorporate the CDR s noncovalently. The CDRs permit the immunoadhesin to specifically bind to a particular antigen of interest.

An antibody may have one or more binding sites. If there is more than one binding site the binding sites may be identical to one another or may be different. For instance a naturally occurring immunoglobulin has two identical binding sites a single chain antibody or Fab fragment has one binding site while a bispecific or bifunctional antibody has two different binding sites.

An isolated antibody is an antibody that 1 is not associated with naturally associated components including other naturally associated antibodies that accompany it in its native state 2 is free of other proteins from the same species 3 is expressed by a cell from a different species or 4 does not occur in nature.

The term human antibody includes all antibodies that have one or more variable and constant regions derived from human immunoglobulin sequences. In a preferred embodiment all of the variable and constant domains are derived from human immunoglobulin sequences a fully human antibody . These antibodies may be prepared in a variety of ways as described below.

A humanized antibody is an antibody that is derived from a non human species in which certain amino acids in the framework and constant domains of the heavy and light chains have been mutated so as to avoid or abrogate an immune response in humans. Alternatively a humanized antibody may be produced by fusing the constant domains from a human antibody to the variable domains of a non human species. Examples of how to make humanized antibodies may be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 054 297 5 886 152 and 5 877 293 incorporated herein by reference.

The term chimeric antibody refers to an antibody that contains one or more regions from one antibody and one or more regions from one or more other antibodies.

Fragments or analogs of antibodies can be readily prepared by those of ordinary skill in the art following the teachings of this specification. Preferred amino and carboxy termini of fragments or analogs occur near boundaries of functional domains. Structural and functional domains can be identified by comparison of the nucleotide and or amino acid sequence data to public or proprietary sequence databases. Preferably computerized comparison methods are used to identify sequence motifs or predicted protein conformation domains that occur in other proteins of known structure and or function. Methods to identify protein sequences that fold into a known three dimensional structure are known. Bowie et al. Science 253 164 1991 .

Small interfering RNA can also be used therapeutically to treat or prevent GVHD radiation induced diseases including GI syndrome inflammation and autoimmune diseases in a subject by administering an si RNA at least a portion of which is complementary to and specifically hybridizes with the mRNA encoding ASMase or Bax in order to reduce or inhibit the respective expression thereby blocking apoptosis.

US Patent Application 20040023390 incorporated herein by reference teaches that double stranded RNA dsRNA can induce sequence specific posttranscriptional gene silencing in many organisms by a process known as RNA interference RNAi . However in mammalian cells dsRNA that is 30 base pairs or longer can induce sequence nonspecific responses that trigger a shut down of protein synthesis and even cell death through apoptosis. Recent work shows that RNA fragments are the sequence specific mediators of RNAi Elbashir et al. 2001 . Interference of gene expression by these small interfering RNA siRNA is now recognized as a naturally occurring strategy for silencing genes in plants and in mouse embryonic stem cells oocytes and early embryos Cogoni et al. 1994 Baulcombe 1996 Kennerdell 1998 Timmons 1998 Waterhouse et al. 1998 Wianny and Zernicka Goetz 2000 Yang et al. 2001 Svoboda et al. 2000 .

In mammalian cell culture a siRNA mediated reduction in gene expression has been accomplished by transfecting cells with synthetic RNA nucleic acids Caplan et al. 2001 Elbashir et al. 2001 . The 20040023390 application the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein provides methods using a viral vector containing an expression cassette containing a pol II promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding a small interfering RNA molecule siRNA targeted against a gene of interest.

As used herein RNAi is the process of RNA interference. A typical mRNA produces approximately 5 000 copies of a protein. RNAi is a process that interferes with or significantly reduces the number of protein copies made by an mRNA. For example a double stranded short interfering RNA siRNA molecule is engineered to complement and match the protein encoding nucleotide sequence of the target mRNA to be interfered with. Following intracellular delivery the siRNA molecule associates with an RNA induced silencing complex RISC . The siRNA associated RISC binds the target mRNA such as mRNA encoding ASMase or Bax through a base pairing interaction and degrades it. The RISC remains capable of degrading additional copies of the targeted mRNA. Other forms of RNA can be used such as short hairpin RNA and longer RNA molecules. Longer molecules cause cell death for example by instigating apoptosis and inducing an interferon response. Cell death was the major hurdle to achieving RNAi in mammals because dsRNAs longer than 30 nucleotides activated defense mechanisms that resulted in non specific degradation of RNA transcripts and a general shutdown of the host cell. Using from about 20 to about 29 nucleotide siRNAs to mediate gene specific suppression in mammalian cells has apparently overcome this obstacle. These siRNAs are long enough to cause gene suppression but not of a length that induces an interferon response.

The invention has been described in the foregoing specification with reference to specific embodiments. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

As used herein the term nucleic acid refers to both RNA and DNA including cDNA genomic DNA and synthetic e.g. chemically synthesized DNA. The nucleic acid can be double stranded or single stranded i.e. a sense or an antisense single strand . As used herein isolated nucleic acid refers to a nucleic acid that is separated from other nucleic acid molecules that are present in a mammalian genome including nucleic acids that normally flank one or both sides of the nucleic acid in a mammalian genome e.g. nucleic acids that flank an ARPKD gene . The term isolated as used herein with respect to nucleic acids also includes any non naturally occurring nucleic acid sequence since such non naturally occurring sequences are not found in nature and do not have immediately contiguous sequences in a naturally occurring genome.

An isolated nucleic acid can be for example a DNA molecule provided one of the nucleic acid sequences normally found immediately flanking that DNA molecule in a naturally occurring genome is removed or absent. Thus an isolated nucleic acid includes without limitation a DNA molecule that exists as a separate molecule e.g. a chemically synthesized nucleic acid or a cDNA or genomic DNA fragment produced by PCR or restriction endonuclease treatment independent of other sequences as well as DNA that is incorporated into a vector an autonomously replicating plasmid a virus e.g. a retrovirus lentivirus adenovirus or herpes virus or into the genomic DNA of a prokaryote or eukaryote. In addition an isolated nucleic acid can include an engineered nucleic acid such as a DNA molecule that is part of a hybrid or fusion nucleic acid. A nucleic acid existing among hundreds to millions of other nucleic acids within for example cDNA libraries or genomic libraries or gel slices containing a genomic DNA restriction digest is not to be considered an isolated nucleic acid.

Other embodiments of the present invention are directed to the use of antisense nucleic acids either DNA or RNA or small interfering RNA to inhibit expression of ASMase or Bax or Bak or a biologically active fragment or variant thereof. The antisense nucleic acid can be antisense RNA antisense DNA or small interfering RNA. Based on the known sequence of ASMase or Bax or Bak antisense DNA or RNA that hybridize sufficiently to the respective gene or mRNA to turn off expression can be readily designed and engineered using methods known in the art.

The isolated antisense or siRNA nucleic acid molecules for use in the invention comprise a nucleic acid molecule which is a complement of the gene or mRNA sequence for the target the gene full genomic DNA encoding ASMasae identified as SEQ ID NO 1 the gene encoding human Bax identified as SEQ ID NO 2 or the gene encoding human Bak identified as SEQ ID NO 3. A nucleic acid molecule which is complementary to a given nucleotide sequence is one which is sufficiently complementary to the given nucleotide sequence that it can hybridize to the given nucleotide sequence thereby forming a stable duplex.

Antisense nucleic acid molecules i.e. molecules which are complementary to a sense nucleic acid encoding a protein e.g. complementary to the coding strand of a double stranded DNA molecule or cDNA or complementary to an mRNA sequence. Accordingly an antisense nucleic acid can hydrogen bond to a sense nucleic acid. The antisense nucleic acid can be complementary to an entire ASMase Bak or Bax coding strand or to only a portion thereof e.g. all or part of the protein coding region or open reading frame . An antisense nucleic acid molecule can be antisense to a noncoding region of the coding strand of a nucleotide sequence encoding ASMase Bak or Bax. The noncoding regions 5 and 3 untranslated regions are the 5 and 3 sequences which flank the coding region and are not translated into amino acids.

Given the coding strand sequences encoding ASMase cDNA SEQ ID NO. 2 GENOMIC DNA SEQ ID NO. 7 Bax cDNA SEQ ID NO. 3 GENOMIC DNA SEQ ID NO. 8 or Bak cDNA SEQ ID NO. 5 GENOMIC DNA SEQ ID NO. 9 disclosed herein antisense nucleic acids of the invention can be designed according to the rules of Watson and Crick base pairing. The antisense nucleic acid molecule can be complementary to the entire coding region of ASMase Bak or Bax mRNA but more preferably is an oligonucleotide which is antisense to only a portion of the coding or noncoding region of ASMase Bak or Bax mRNA. For example the antisense oligonucleotide can be complementary to the region surrounding the translation start site of ASMase Bak or Bax. An antisense oligonucleotide can be for example about 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 or 50 nucleotides in length. An antisense nucleic acid of the invention can be constructed using chemical synthesis and enzymatic ligation reactions using procedures known in the art. For example an antisense nucleic acid e.g. an antisense oligonucleotide can be chemically synthesized using naturally occurring nucleotides or variously modified nucleotides designed to increase the biological stability of the molecules or to increase the physical stability of the duplex formed between the antisense and sense nucleic acids e.g. phosphorothioate derivatives and acridine substituted nucleotides can be used. Examples of modified nucleotides which can be used to generate the antisense nucleic acid include 5 fluorouracil 5 bromo uracil 5 chlorouracil 5 hodouracil hypoxanthine xanthine 4 acetylcytosine 5 carboxyhydroxylmethyl uracil 5 carboxymethylaminomethyl 2 thouridine 5 carboxymethylaminometh yluracil dihydrouracil beta D galactosylqueosine inosine N6 isopentenyladenine 1 methylguanine 1 methylinosine 2 2 dimethylguanine 2 methyladenine 2 methylguanine 3 methylcytosine 5 metnylcytosine N6 adenine 7 methylguanine 5 methylaminomethyluracil 5 methoxyaminomethyl 2 thiouracil beta D mannosylqueosine 5 methoxycarboxymethyluracil 5 methoxyuracil 2 methylthio N6 isopenten yladenine uracil 5 oxyacetic acid v wybutoxosine pseudouracil queosine 2 thiocytosine 5 methyl 2 thiouracil 2 thlouracil 4 thiouracil 5 methyluracil uracil 5 oxyacetic acid methylester uracil 5 cxyacetic acid v 5 methyl 2 thiouracil 3 3 amino 3 N 2 carboxypropyl uracil acp3 w and 2 6 diaminopurine. Alternatively the antisense nucleic acid can be produced biologically using an expression vector into which a nucleic acid has been subcloned in an antisense orientation i.e. RNA transcribed from the inserted nucleic acid will be of an antisense orientation to a target nucleic acid of interest described further in the following subsection .

The antisense nucleic acid molecules of the invention are typically administered to a subject or generated in situ such that they hybridize with or bind to cellular mRNA and or genomic DNA encoding the protein of interest to thereby inhibit expression of the protein e.g. by inhibiting transcription and or translation. The hybridization can be by conventional nucleotide complementary to form a stable duplex or for example in the case of an antisense nucleic acid molecule which binds to DNA duplexes through specific interactions in the major groove of the double helix. An example of a route of administration of antisense nucleic acid molecules of the invention include direct injection at a tissue site. Alternatively antisense nucleic acid molecules can be modified to target selected cells and then administered systemically. For example for systemic administration antisense molecules can be modified such that they specifically bind to receptors or antigens expressed on a selected cell surface e.g. by linking the antisense nucleic acid molecules to peptides or antibodies which bind to cell surface receptors or antigens. The antisense nucleic acid molecules can also be delivered to cells using the vectors described herein. To achieve sufficient intracellular concentrations of the antisense molecules vector constructs in which the antisense nucleic acid molecule is placed under the control of a strong pol II or pol III promoter are preferred.

An antisense nucleic acid molecule of the invention can be an alpha anomeric nucleic acid molecule. An .alpha. anomeric nucleic acid molecule forms specific double stranded hybrids with complementary RNA in which contrary to the usual .beta. units the strands run parallel to each other Gaultier et al. 1987 Nucleic Acids. Res. 15 6625 6641 . The antisense nucleic acid molecule can also comprise a 2 o methylribonucleotide Inoue et al. 1987 Nucleic Acids Res. 15 6131 6148 or a chimeric RNA DNA analogue Inoue et al. 1987 FEBS Lett. 215 327 330 . All of the methods described in the above articles regarding antisense technology are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention also encompasses ribozymes. Ribozymes are catalytic RNA molecules with ribonuclease activity which are capable of cleaving a single stranded nucleic acid such as an mRNA to which they have a complementary region. Thus ribozymes e.g. hammerhead ribozymes described in Haselhoff and Gerlach 1988 Nature 334 585 591 can be used to catalytically cleave ASMase Bak or Bax transcripts thereby inhibit translation of ASMase Bak or Bax. A ribozyme having specificity for an ASMase Bak or Bax encoding nucleic acid can be designed based upon the nucleotide sequence of a ASMase Bak or BaxcDNA disclosed herein. For example a derivative of a Tetrahymena L 19 IVS RNA can be constructed in which the nucleotide sequence of the active site is complementary to the nucleotide sequence to be cleaved in an ASMase Bak or Bax encoding mRNA. See e.g. Cech et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 987 071 and Cech et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 742. Alternatively ASMase Bak or Bax mRNA can be used to select a catalytic RNA having a specific ribonuclease activity from a pool of RNA molecules. See e.g. Bartel and Szostak 1993 Science 261 1411 1418 incorporated herein by reference. 

As used herein the term nucleic acid refers to both RNA and DNA including cDNA genomic DNA and synthetic e.g. chemically synthesized DNA. The nucleic acid can be double stranded or single stranded i.e. a sense or an antisense single strand . As used herein isolated nucleic acid refers to a nucleic acid that is separated from other nucleic acid molecules that are present in a mammalian genome including nucleic acids that normally flank one or both sides of the nucleic acid in a mammalian genome e.g. nucleic acids that flank an ARPKD gene . The term isolated as used herein with respect to nucleic acids also includes any non naturally occurring nucleic acid sequence since such non naturally occurring sequences are not found in nature and do not have immediately contiguous sequences in a naturally occurring genome.

An isolated nucleic acid can be for example a DNA molecule provided one of the nucleic acid sequences normally found immediately flanking that DNA molecule in a naturally occurring genome is removed or absent. Thus an isolated nucleic acid includes without limitation a DNA molecule that exists as a separate molecule e.g. a chemically synthesized nucleic acid or a cDNA or genomic DNA fragment produced by PCR or restriction endonuclease treatment independent of other sequences as well as DNA that is incorporated into a vector an autonomously replicating plasmid a virus e.g. a retrovirus lentivirus adenovirus or herpes virus or into the genomic DNA of a prokaryote or eukaryote. In addition an isolated nucleic acid can include an engineered nucleic acid such as a DNA molecule that is part of a hybrid or fusion nucleic acid. A nucleic acid existing among hundreds to millions of other nucleic acids within for example cDNA libraries or genomic libraries or gel slices containing a genomic DNA restriction digest is not to be considered an isolated nucleic acid.

The present invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions and formulations of the 2A2 humanized monoclonal antibody optionally formulated with one or more statins or imipramine. Other pharmaceutical compositions include the antisense nucleic acids and small interfering RNAs of the invention that are administered reduce ASMase or Bak or Bax expression.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention contain the therapeutic agent anti ceramide antibody enzyme inhibitors antisense nucleic acids or si RNA in an amount sufficient to prevent or treat the enumerated diseases GVHD radiation induced diseases including GI syndrome inflammation and autoimmune diseases in a subject. These pharmaceutical compositions are suitable for administration to a subject in need of prophylaxis or therapy of GVHD radiation induced diseases including GI syndrome inflammation and autoimmune diseases in a subject. The subject is preferably a human but can be non human as well. A suitable subject can be an individual who is suspected of having has been diagnosed as having or is at risk of developing one of the enumerated diseases. Therapeutic compositions may contain for example such normally employed additives as binders fillers carriers preservatives stabilizing agents emulsifiers buffers and excipients as for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharin cellulose magnesium carbonate and the like. These compositions typically contain 1 95 of active ingredient preferably 2 70 active ingredient.

Antibodies and antisense nucleotides and enzyme inhibitors or statins of the present invention can also be mixed with diluents or excipients which are compatible and physiologically tolerable. Suitable diluents and excipients are for example water saline dextrose glycerol or the like and combinations thereof. In addition if desired the compositions may contain minor amounts of auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents stabilizing or pH buffering agents.

In some embodiments the therapeutic compositions of the present invention are prepared either as liquid solutions or suspensions as sprays or in solid forms. Oral formulations usually include such normally employed additives such as binders fillers carriers preservatives stabilizing agents emulsifiers buffers and excipients as for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharin cellulose magnesium carbonate and the like. These compositions take the form of solutions suspensions tablets pills capsules sustained release formulations or powders and typically contain 1 95 of active ingredient preferably 2 70 . One example of an oral composition useful for delivering the therapeutic compositions of the present invention is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 643 602 incorporated herein by reference .

Additional formulations which are suitable for other modes of administration such as topical administration include salves tinctures creams lotions transdermal patches and suppositories. For salves and creams traditional binders carriers and excipients may include for example polyalkylene glycols or triglycerides. One example of a topical delivery method is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 834 016 incorporated herein by reference . Other liposomal delivery methods may also be employed See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 851 548 and 5 711 964 both of which are herein incorporated by reference .

The formulations may also contain more than one active compound as necessary for the particular indication being treated preferably those with complementary activities that do not adversely affect each other. Such molecules are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. For example the 2A2 antibody could be formulated with a statin or with imipramine.

Sustained release preparations may also be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the antibodies or fragments nystatin imipramine or combinations thereof which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsule. Examples of sustained release matrices include but are not limited to polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinylalcohol polylactides copolymers of L glutamic acid and y ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid. While polymers such as ethylene vinyl acetate and lactic acid glycolic acid enable release of molecules for over 100 days certain hydrogels release proteins for shorter time periods.

The antibodies and antisense or siRNAs of the present invention may be administered by any suitable means including parenteral subcutaneous topical intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal and intralesional administration e.g. for local immunosuppressive treatment . Parenteral infusions include intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal or subcutaneous administration. In addition suitable administration includes by pulse infusion particularly with declining doses of the antibody. Preferably the dosing is given by injections most preferably intravenous or subcutaneous injections depending in part on whether the administration is brief or chronic.

For the prevention or treatment of disease the appropriate dosage of antibody will depend on the type of disease to be treated the severity and course of the disease whether the drug is administered for preventive or therapeutic purposes previous therapy the patient s clinical history and response to the new drugs 2A2 antibody etc. and the discretion of the attending physician. The antibodies and nucleotides or other drugs imipramine and statins are suitably administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments.

As mentioned above the amount of anti ceramide antibody to be administered therapeutically ranges from about lug to 100 ug ml. This amount typically varies and can be an amount sufficient to achieve serum therapeutic agent levels typically of between about 1 microgram per milliliter and about 10 micrograms per milliliter in the subject. The therapeutic agents of the invention can be administered by one or more separate administrations or by continuous infusion. For repeated administrations over several days or longer depending on the condition the treatment is sustained until the symptoms are sufficiently reduced or eliminated. The progress of this therapy is easily monitored by conventional techniques and assays and may be used to adjust dosage to achieve a therapeutic effect.

A candidate dosage of antisense nucleic acid or siRNA for use therapeutically can be determined initially by finding an amount that reduces expression of the target protein in a biological sample from a human or animal.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Wild type clone E6 1 caspase 8 clone I9.2 and FADD clone I2.1 Jurkat T lymphocytes were obtained from ATCC Rockville Md. . Cells were grown in a 5 COincubator at 37 C. in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum and 10 mM Hepes pH 7.4 2 mM L glutamine 1 mM sodium pyruvate 100 M nonessential amino acids 100 units ml penicillin and 100 g ml streptomycin. Prior to stimulation with UV C or anti Fas cells were resuspended in fresh medium and allowed to acclimate for 4 hours. Jurkat cells were then treated with 50 ng ml anti FasCH 11 activating antibody Upstate Biotechnology Lake Placid N.Y. or 50 Joules mUV C using an FB UVXL 1000 Crosslinker Fisher Biotech Pittsburgh Pa. unless otherwise indicated. For platform studies Jurkat cells were incubated with CH 11 at 4 C. for 20 min to insure uniform receptor engagement and warmed to 37 C. to initiate stimulation.

Where indicated cells were pre incubated with 10 M z VAD fmk Calbiochem La Jolla Calif. 30 g ml nystatin Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. 50 M imipramine Sigma Aldrich or 1 g ml mouse monoclonal anti ceramide antibody MID15B4 Alexis Biochemicals San Diego CA . Nystatin imipramine and anti ceramide studies were performed in RPMI containing 0.5 lipid free fetal bovine serum HyClone Logan Utah . In each study an aliquot of cells were stained with trypan blue to assess viability.

C3H HeJ C3HeB FeJ LP J LP H 2 B10.BR B10 H 2 and B6.MRL.lpr female mice 8 12 weeks old were purchased from Jackson Laboratories Bar Harbor Me. . SV129 C57BL 6 and C57BL 6 mice were inbred in our colony and genotyped as previously described Horinouchi 1995 171 Knudson 1995 173 . Backcrossing the asmase genotype onto the C57BL 6 background was performed by initially mating wildtype C57BL 6 females with male SV129 C57BL 6 mice. Male Fmice with asmase genotype were subsequently mated with C57BL 6 females. Thereafter a mating protocol of male asmase progeny with wildtype C57BL 6 female mice was continued for ten generations to obtain an asmase genotype in pure C57BL 6 background. Once backcrossing was established C57BL 6 mice were interbred to obtain experimental animals. Male and female hosts were used in BMT experiments at 8 12 weeks of age. BMT protocols were approved by the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Mice were housed in a pathogen free facility at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in sterilized micro isolator cages and received normal chow and autoclaved hyperchlorinated drinking water pH 3.0 . This facility is approved by the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care and is maintained in accordance with the regulations and standards of the United States Department of Agriculture and the Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health.

Bone marrow BM cells were removed aseptically from femurs and tibias. Donor marrow was T cell depleted using anti Thy 1.2 antibody and low TOX M rabbit complement Cedarlane Laboratories Hornby Canada . Splenic T cells were obtained by purification over a nylon wool column. Cells 5 10BM cells with or without splenic T cells were resuspended in Dulbecco s modified essential medium and transplanted by tail vein infusion into lethally irradiated recipients that had received 1100 cGy total body irradiation Cs source as a split dose with 3 hrs between doses on day 0.

Cell culture medium for lymphocyte and bone marrow harvesting consisted of RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal calf serum 100 U mL penicillin 100 g mL streptomycin 2 mM L glutamine and 50 M 2 mercaptoethanol. Anti murine CD16 CD32 Fc block 2.4G2 fluorochrome labeled CD3 145 2C11 CD4 RM4 5 CD8 53 6.7 CD62L MEL 14 and Ly 9.1 30C7 antibodies were obtained from Pharmingen San Diego Calif. . Ammonium chloride red blood cell RBC lysis buffer concanavalin A conA and concanamycin A CMA were obtained from Sigma St. Louis Mo. .

Hepatocytes were isolated by cannulation of the portal vein and retrograde in situ collagenase perfusion according to the method described by Klaunig. Briefly livers were perfused with 20 mL Buffer 1 Krebs Ringer with glucose 0.1mM EGTA followed by 25 mL Buffer 2 Krebs Ringer with glucose containing 0.2 mM CaClwith 5 000 units collagenase type I Sigma at a rate of 7 ml min by peristaltic pump Rainin Instrument LLC. Woburn Mass. . Perfused livers were excised and minced in Buffer 2 filtered through a 100 M cell strainer washed twice at 50 g and resuspended in RPMI 1640 complete medium containing 10 fetal bovine serum. Viability was routinely greater than 90 .

Apoptosis was assessed in vitro by two different techniques. TUNEL staining was performed on cells permeabilized with 0.1 Triton X 100 and 0.1 sodium citrate at 4 C. for 5 min according to the manufacturer s instructions Roche Molecular Biochemicals Indianapolis Ind. . Alternately stimulated cells were fixed with 2 paraformaldehyde washed with phosphate buffered saline PBS and stained with 100 l of 24 g ml bis benzimide trihydrochloride solution Hoechst 33258 Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. for 10 min. Morphologic changes of nuclear apoptosis including chromatin condensation segmentation and compaction along the periphery of the nucleus or the appearance of apoptotic bodies were quantified using an Axiovert S 100 Zeiss fluorescence microscope as previously described . A minimum of 200 cells were examined per point.

Apoptosis was quantified in vivo in the endothelium of the lamina propria of the small intestines following TUNEL staining as described Paris 2001 7 . Endothelial cells were identified by immunostaining using an antibody against the endothelial cell surface marker CD31 PharMingen catalog no. 1951D as previously published Paris 2001 7 .

Hepatocyte apoptosis was assessed on 0.5 10hepatocytes rested for 30 min in complete medium and stimulated for 16 hrs at 37 C. in 5 COwith 1 g mL anti Fas Jo2 antibody Pharmingen or 0 2 10splenic T cells isolated from C57BL 6 mice 2 3 weeks following transplantation of LP J donor bone marrow and T cells as described. In some studies hepatocytes were pretreated for 30 min with nystatin 50 g mL Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. washed in RPMI and resuspended in RPMI supplemented with 1 lipid free FBS prior to stimulation.

Colony formation of Jurkat cells following UV C or anti Fas CH 11 treatment was evaluated using a soft agar cloning assay as described previously. Briefly cells were preincubated with nystatin and anti ceramide mAb or vehicle and control IgM in RPMI 0.5 lipid free fetal bovine serum and stimulated with increasing doses of UV C or anti Fas for 4 hours. Subsequently cells were suspended in RPMI medium containing 20 FBS 20 mM L glutamine and 40 methylcellulose medium and plated in triplicate. After 14 16 days of incubation plates were analyzed by inverted microscope and aggregates with more than 20 cells were scored as colonies. Colony formation for each condition calculated in relation to values obtained for untreated control cells. Colony survival curves were calculated by least square regression analysis using a modification of the FIT software program. The program fits the curves by iteratively weighted least squares to each set of dose survival data estimates the covariates of the survival curve parameters and the corresponding confidence regions and plots the survival curve. It also derives curve parameters such as the D the reciprocal of the slope on the exponential portion of the curve representing the level of radiosensitivity and the N number measuring the size of the shoulder .

Platforms were detected as previously described. Briefly 1 10Jurkat cells were stimulated with UV C or Fas fixed with 2 paraformaldehyde at the indicated times blocked in PBS containing 1 fetal bovine serum and then washed with PBS. Cells were stained for the raft localized lipid GM1 with FITC conjugated cholera toxin subunit 2 g ml Sigma Aldrich for 45 mM at 4 C. washed twice in PBS containing 0.1 Triton X 100 and mounted in fluorescent mounting medium Dako Carpenteria Calif. . Fluorescence was detected using an Axiovert S 100 Zeiss fluorescence microscope equipped with a SPOT digital camera. The percentage of cells containing platforms i.e. those in which the fluorescence condenses onto less than 15 of the cell surface was determined by counting 150 250 cells per point. Alternately platforms were identified using a mouse monoclonal anti ceramide antibody MID 15B4 IgM 1 50 dilution Alexis Biochemicals mouse monoclonal anti Fas CH 11 IgM 1 500 dilution Upstate Biotechnology or polyclonal rabbit anti ASMase antibody 1598 1 100 dilution and detected using Cy3 conjugated anti mouse or anti rabbit IgM 1 500 dilution Roche Molecular Biochemicals respectively. Rabbit polyclonal anti CD46 1 1000 dilution Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. was used as a negative control. In some studies confocal images were obtained using a Leica TCS SPZ upright confocal microscope. Alternatively 0.5 10hepatocytes were stimulated for the indicated times with CTLs and platform formation was assessed as described.

The rabbit polyclonal anti ASMase antibody 1598 was generated against full length FLAG tagged human ASMase protein. Anti sera was purified over a BIO RAD T Gel Column to obtain an IgG fraction that displays specific immunoreactivity by immunoblot assay at a concentration of 100 ng. l towards 100 ng of purified recombinant human ASMase or ASMase from 25 g of Jurkat cell lysates. At a concentration of 200 g l 1598 quantitatively immunoprecipitates ASMase activity from 100 ng of purified ASMase and at a concentration of 200 ng l detects cell surface expression of ASMase by flow cytometry or confocal immunofluorescence microscopy.

Jurkat cells stimulated with UV C or CH 11 were incubated for the indicated times at 37 C. Stimulation was terminated by the addition of 2 ml of chloroform methanol HCl 100 100 1 v v v and ceramide was quantified by the diacyglycerol kinase assay as described.

Jurkat cells stimulated with UV C or CH 11 were incubated for the indicated times at 37 C. Stimulation was terminated with ice cold PBS and cells were lysed in RIPA buffer 25 mM HEPES pH 7.4 0.1 SDS 0.5 sodium deoxycholate 1 Triton X 100 100 mM NaCl 10 mM NaF 10 mM NaPO 10 mM EDTA and 10 g ml each aprotonin and leupeptin . Samples were centrifuged at 14 000 g and the supernatants were added to 4 SDS sample buffer. Lysates were separated on a 10 SDS PAGE gel and transferred onto nitrocellulose membranes. Caspase cleavage was detected using rabbit polyclonal antibodies against caspase 3 BD PharMingen San Diego Calif. caspase 8 BD PharMingen or caspase 9 Cell Signaling Technology Beverly Mass. . Caspase 8 and FADD expression levels were detected using mouse monoclonal anti caspase 8 clone 1 1 37 Upstate Biotechnology or anti FADD BD PharMingen antibodies respectively.

To detect surface ASMase by FACS Jurkat cells were stimulated with 50 J mUV C or 50 ng ml CH 11 at 37 C. Stimulation was terminated after 1 mM the time of maximal ASMase translocation by addition of ice cold washing buffer PBS containing 1 FCS and 0.1 NaN and cells were blocked on ice for 20 min using the same buffer supplemented with isotype control rabbit IgG 20 g ml . Cells were re washed and incubated for 45 min with 1 g ml of polyclonal anti ASMase 1598 antibody in PBS followed by washing and incubation with Cy3 conjugated anti rabbit IgG. 10 000 cells were analyzed using a FACScan flow cytometer Becton Dickinson Franklin Lakes N.J. .

Harvested splenocytes were washed incubated with CD16 CD32 FcR block on ice for 15 mM subsequently incubated with primary antibodies for 45 mM washed resuspended in FACS buffer PBS 2 BSA 0.1 NaN and analyzed on a FACScan flow cytometer with CellQuest software Becton Dickinson . For CFSE staining RBC lysed LP J or B10.BR splenocytes were positively selected as per manufacturer s instruction with anti CD3 microbeads Miltenyi Auburn Calif. stained in 2.5 M carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester CFSE and 15 20 10stained cells were transplanted into allogeneic B6 recipients of either asmase or asmase background. Splenocytes from these animals were harvested 72 hrs thereafter stained with fluorochrome conjugated antibodies for surface antigens and FACS analysis was carried out as above.

ASMase activity was measured using a fluorescence based high performance liquid chromatographic HPLC assay. Briefly 5 10Jurkat cells were stimulated with 50 J mUV C or 50 ng ml CH 11 at 37 C. and at the indicated times washed with ice cold PBS and lysed on ice in NP 40 buffer 150 mM NaCl 25 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 10 glycerol 1 NP 40 2 mM EDTA 0.1 M DTT supplemented with PMSF leupeptin and protease inhibitor cocktail . ASMase activity was measured by incubating an equal volume of lysate in assay buffer 500 M BODIPY Csphingomyelin Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. 0.1 mM ZnCl 0.1 M sodium acetate pH 5.0 and 0.6 Triton X 100 for 60 min at 37 C. Thereafter the reaction was stopped by 10 dilution in ethanol and 5 l of the assay mixture was sampled by a WIPS 712 Waters Corp. Milford Mass. auto sampler equipped with a 20 4 mm reverse phase Aquasil Ccolumn Keystone Scientific Bellefonte Pa. . The reaction product BODIPY Cceramide was specifically separated from substrate within 0.4 0.5 min by isocratic elution with 95 Me0H at a flow rate of 1.2 ml min. Fluorescence was quantified using a Waters 474 Waters Corp. fluorescence detector set to excitation and emission wavelengths of 505 and 540 nm respectively. The amount of product generated was calculated using a regression equation derived from a standard curve established for known amounts of BODIPY Cceramide standard. Alternatively ASMase activity was quantified by radioenzymatic assay using C methylcholine sphingomyelin Amersham Biosciences Piscataway N.J. as substrate as described . Briefly Jurkat cells were lysed in PBS containing 0.2 Triton X 100 at the indicated times after 50 J mUV C or 50 ng ml CH 11 stimulation. Post nuclear supernatants were assayed for activity in 250 mM sodium acetate pH 5.0 supplemented with 0.1 mM ZnCl 1 mM EDTA and 0.1 Triton X 100 in the presence of substrate. Reactions were terminated after 1 hour with CHCl MeOH 1N HCl 100 100 1 v v v and product was quantified by scintillation counter. As both assays yielded identical fold increases after UV C or Fas stimulation these data were collated. However BODIPY Csphingomyelin was less efficiently catalyzed resulting in a lower Vmax as determined by Michaelis Menton kinetic analysis. Thus baseline ASMase specific activity derived from the radioenzymatic assay is displayed throughout the manuscript.

TBI was delivered with a Shepherd Mark I unit Model 68 SN643 operating Cs sources. The dose rate was 2.12 Gy min. To collect small intestinal samples mice were sacrificed by hypercapnia asphyxiation and 2.5 cm segments of the proximal jejunum were obtained at 2 cm from the ligament of Trietz. Tissue samples were fixed by overnight incubation in 4 neutral buffered formaldehyde and embedded in paraffin blocks. To evaluate intestinal tissue responses to radiation transverse sections of the full jejunal circumference 5 m thick were obtained by microtomy from the paraffin blocks adhered to polylysine treated slides and deparaffinized by heating at 90 C. for 10 minutes and at 60 C. for 5 minutes followed by two xylene washes for 5 minutes and stained with hematoxylin and eosin according to a standard protocol. To determine the causes of death after TBI autopsies were performed within 60 min of animal death or when terminally sick animals displaying an agonal breathing pattern were sacrificed by hypercapnia asphyxiation. Tissue specimens were collected from all animals fixed in formaldehyde and stained with hematoxylin.

The microcolony survival assay was performed as described by Withers and Elkind. Briefly 3.5 days after irradiation mice were sacrificed by hypercapnia asphyxiation and samples of the small intestine were harvested and prepared for histological staining as described above. Surviving crypts were defined as containing 10 or more adjacent chromophilic non Paneth cells at least one Paneth cell and a lumen. The circumference of a transverse cross section of the intestine was used as a unit. The number of surviving crypts was counted in each circumference. 10 20 circumferences were scored per mouse and 2 4 mice were used to generate each data point. Data were reported as mean SEM.

Survival was monitored daily and ear tagged animals in coded cages were individually scored weekly for 5 clinical parameters weight loss hunched posture decreased activity fur ruffling and skin lesions on a scale from 0 to 2. A clinical GVHD score was generated by summation of the 5 criteria scores 0 10 as described by Cooke et al. GVHD target organ pathology for bowel terminal ileum and ascending colon liver and skin tongue and ear was assessed by one individual J.M.C. for liver and intestinal pathology G.F.M. for cutaneous pathology in a blinded fashion on 10 formalin buffered phosphate preserved paraffin embedded and hematoxylin eosin stained 5 M histopathology sections with a semiquantitative scoring system. Briefly bowel and liver were scored for 19 to 22 different parameters associated with GVHD as describedand skin was evaluated for the number of dyskeratotic and apoptotic cells as published. Villus and crypt cell apoptosis were scored on formalin preserved paraffin embedded TUNEL stained and hematoxylin eosin counterstained sections as described.

Enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISA for serum IL 1 IL 2 IFN and TNF levels was performed according to the manufacturer s instructions R D Minneapolis Minn. .

Harvested splenocytes were enriched for T lymphocytes by nylon wool passage resulting in 90 purity based upon FITC CD3 mAb staining by flow cytometry. AICD was induced as previously reported. Briefly T cells were incubated in RPMI 1640 10 FCS at 2 10 mL and primed with 10 g ml ConA Sigma St. Loius Mo. for 48 hrs. Cells were then washed and rested in medium containing 20 U mL IL 2 R D Systems for 24 hrs. Finally cells were washed and resuspended in medium containing 20 U mL IL 2 and increasing amounts of anti CD3 mAb 0 10 g ml for 24 hrs. Cells were subsequently fixed stained with 25 l of 24 g ml bis benzimide trihydrochloride solution Hoechst 33258 Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. and apoptosis was quantified by fluorescence microscopy as above.

Balb c splenocytes were in vitro activated by incubation with 2 10irradiated 2000 rad C57BL 6 splenocytes in RPMI 1640 10 FCS for 5 days. 2 days prior to the MLR asmase or asmase splenocytes were activated with 10 g mL con A for 48 hrs labeled for 45 min with 1 Ci mL NaCr0at 37 C. and 5 CO washed in RPMI 1640 10 FBS and coincubated with activated Balb c splenocytes in complete medium for 24 hrs at 37 C. Target cell lysis was quantified by counting Cr release into the supernatant by gamma counter Cobra Meriden Conn. using the formula corrected lysis 100 sample Cr release control Cr release maximum Cr release control Cr release .

Actuarial survival of animals was calculated by the product limit Kaplan Meier methodand statistical significance of differences in survival were calculated by the Mantel log rank test. Crypt survival curves were calculated by least square regression analysis using a modification of the FIT software program. The program fits the curves by iteratively weighted least squares to each set of dose survival data estimates the covariates of the survival curve parameters and the corresponding confidence regions and plots the survival curve. It also derives curve parameters such as the D the reciprocal of the slope on the exponential portion of the curve representing the level of radiosensitivity and the N number measuring the size of the shoulder . Statistical analysis of GVHD scores thymocyte and splenocyte number and proliferation assays was performed using the nonparametric unpaired Mann Whitney U test. Student s t test with 95 confidence estimations was used for all other analyses.

Small intestine liver and skin were harvested from asmase and asmase recipients 21 days following transplantation of BM with or without 3 10T cells. Hematoxylin Eosin stained liver sections revealed hepatic GvHD characterized by lymphocyte infiltration arrows portal tract inflammation endotheliitis right panels and loss of hepatic architecture was less prominent in asmase compared to asmase recipients. Similarly intestinal GvHD including villus blunting lamina propria inflammation crypt stem cell loss and destruction and mucosal atrophy were less prominent in asmase recipients arrows indicate apoptotic cells . Semiquantitative histopathologic analyses revealed that asmase recipients of allogeneic bone marrow and T cells scored significantly higher than littermates receiving only BM in liver Table 1 15.7 1.5 vs. 8.3 2.7 p

GvHD associated organ injury is associated with prominent intestine and skin apoptosis. TUNEL stained ileum sections revealed prominent incidence of apoptotic cells within the lamina propria and crypt epithelium of asmase recipients of BM and T cells. asmase recipients of allogeneic T cells exhibited massive apoptosis 4 apoptotic cells per villus in 88.4 of villi which was decreased to 25.4 in asmase recipients p

We next conducted experiments showing that host ASMase inactivation attenuates Th1 Th2 cytokine profile and CD8 T cell proliferation in acute GvHD. Initial CTL mediated tissue damage propagates a feed forward response requiring CD4 Th1 cytokine secretion and consequent alloreactive CD8 clonal expansion for acute GvHD to proceed followed by inflammatory cytokine storm. To assess the impact of ASMase on serum cytokine levels during GvHD serum Th1 cytokines IL 2 And IFN and Th2 cytokines IL 1 and TNF were quantified 7 and 14 days following transplantation of LP BM with or without splenic T cells. In the minor mismatched model addition of T cells to the allograft increased IL 2 and IFN from 15.7 4.1 to 30.3 2.8 and 3.7 1.0 to 109.9 18.9 pg ml serum respectively p

Increased serum cytokine levels directly impact T cell expansion. To assess whether attenuation of serum cytokines in asmase recipients of BM and T cells impacts donor T cell proliferation carboxyl fluorescein succinimidyl ester CFSE labeled T cells 10 20 10 from LP J H 2 Minor MHC incompatible or B10.BR H 2 Major MHC incompatible donors were infused into lethally irradiated C57BL 6 hosts of asmase or asmase background. While in vivo expansion of both LP and B10.BR CD4 T cells were not statistically different in asmase compared to asmase littermates upper panels and not shown for B10.BR CD8 T cell proliferation was significantly impaired across both minor and major MHC not shown disparate models. Three days following infusion proliferating CD8 cells constituted 54.1 of the total donor LP CD8 T cell population in asmase hosts compared to 26.4 of the population recovered from asmase hosts lower panels p

Despite impairment of proliferation in vivo T cell proliferative capacity remained intact upon transplantation into asmase hosts as splenic T cells from asmase or asmase hosts allografted with LP J TCD BM and T cells displayed similar specific proliferative responses ex vivo when challenged with conA . T cell proliferative capacity remains intact in asmase hosts. Thymidine incorporation assay measuring proliferation of splenic T cells harvested from C57BL 6 or C57BL 6 recipients of donor LP BM and T cells in response to syngeneic LP or allogeneic Balb c splenocytes or mitogen ConA . Data mean SEM represent triplicate determinations from three independent experiments .

Further ex vivo alloactivation of T cells derived from asmase and asmase hosts 21 days post transplantation with LP J BM T cells were similar as proliferation was intact in response to irradiated third party T cell challenge Balb c and absent in response to irradiated LP J T cells . These data demonstrate deficient in vivo CD8 CTL proliferation in asmase hosts and show a biologically relevant consequence to the attenuation of serum proinflammatory cytokine levels in these BMT recipients.

C57BL 6 mice underwent eight immunizations with Kaposi s Sarcoma cells and serum was collected for evaluation by ELISA. Alternatively mice were immunized with BSA conjugated C ceramide. Serum was tested for ceramide binding by ELISA and animals testing positive were sacrificed. Peripheral lymph nodes were harvested and macerated to release B cells. PEG mediated fusion was performed on the purified B cells using Sp2 0 myeloma cells and the fusions were plated in culture plates containing HAT supplemented DMEM. Hybridomas were subsequently fed on day 5 and supernatants were collected on day 10 and tested for ceramide binding by ELISA. Clones were determined positive only if supernantants bound ceramide but not BSA or C dihydroceramide. Positive clones were expanded in HT supplemented DMEM subcloned by limiting dilution and re evaluated by ELISA.

Antigen BSA conjugated Cceramide BSA conjugated Cdihydroceramide or BSA was absorped onto a NUNC Maxisorp Immunoplate by incubation overnight at 4 C. Unbound antigen was washed by phosphate buffered saline PBS containing 0.05 Tween20 and plates were saturated with PBS containing 5 milk. Hybridoma supernatant or primary antibody incubation was performed for 2 hrs at room temperature. Following 3 washes in PBS 0.05 Tween20 secondary antibody incubation HRP conjugated anti mouse antibody was performed for 2 hrs at room temperature. Following an additional 3 washes antibody binding was detected using 3 3 5 5 tetramethylbenzidine TMB stopped using an acidic solution and absorbance was quantified at 450 nm.

Tissue culture supernatants from hybridomas were sterile filtered and mixed with pre washed protein G for 1 hr at 4 C. Protein G was collected and washed with 10 volumes of PBS. Antibodies were eluted with 50 mM citrate 140 mM NaCL pH 2.7. Antibody containing fractions were neutralized by Tris dialyzed and antibody was purified by column affinity. Antibody was eluted using NaCL gradient. Antibody was dialyzed against 25 mM phosphate 100 mM NaCL pH 5.8 aliquoted at 1 mg ml and stored at 20 C.

Five 8 week old female BALB c mice were immunized with 0.5 ml of Kaposi Sarcoma cells 4 10 ml via IP. The animals were immunized three times once per week. Mice were bled 1 week after the last immunization and the antibody responses in the antiserum were evaluated by FACS analysis. One mouse was chosen for hybridoma preparation. It received an additional boost of KS cells three days before the cell fusion. Splenocytes from the BALB c mice immunized with KS cells were fused with mouse myeloma cells P3X63Ag8.653 ATCC at a 4 1 ratio using polyethylene glycol MW 1500 . After fusion cells were seeded and cultured in 96 well plates at 1 10cells well in the RPMI 1640 selection medium containing 20 fetal bovine serum 10 Hybridoma supplements Sigma 2mM L glutamine 100U ml penicillin 100 mg ml streptomycin 10 mM HEPES and 1 hypoxanthine aminopterin thymidine Sigma . Hybridoma supernatants were screened by FACS analysis on KS cells and ELISA using commercial available proteins mixture Annexin V Ceramide BSA and APA . Selected hybridomas were subcloned four times by limited dilution and screened by ELISA on Annexin V coated plates. Conditional media were harvested from the stable hybridoma cultures. The Ig class of mAb was determined with a mouse mAb isotyping kit Santa Cruz . 2A2 mIgM was purified from ascites by using an immobilized mannan binding protein beads. 2A2 mAb mIgM that bind to Annexin V has weak cross binding activity to Ceremide was confirmed by ELISA.

Antibody Humanization. General molecular cloning techniques RT PCR or 5 RACE are used to obtain the variable regions for both heavy V and light V chains of a murine 2A2 antibody. A chimeric 2A2 antibody will be generated to confirm binding properties equivalent to that of the murine parent. Chimeric 2A2 antibody will be humanized by using complementarity determining region CDR grafting. The human framework sequences from the set of human germ line genes will be chosen based on similarity of the human antibody s CDRs to the mouse 2A2 antibody s CDRs. The antibody will be further engineered to fine tune the structure of the antigen binding loops by replacing key residues in the framework regions of the antibody variable regions to improve antibody affinity and production.

