---

title: Dynamic security question compromise checking based on incoming social network postings
abstract: An approach is provided to secure security questions by checking posts directed at a social network. In the approach, requested post is received from one of the social network users. The content of the requested post is compared to previously established security questions and corresponding security answers, either established by the user or by another user. The requested post is allowed when the comparison reveals that the content does not compromise one of the previously established security questions and corresponding security answers. However, the requested post is rejected if the comparison reveals that the content compromises one of the previously established security questions and corresponding security answers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856945&OS=08856945&RS=08856945
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08856945
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130114
---
The present disclosure relates to an approach that identifies posts to a social network that may compromise previously established security questions and answers.

Security questions are a popular method used to ensure that a user is the actual person associated with an online account. However given the level of information that is shared on purpose or inadvertently by the account holder an acquaintance or a complete stranger in social networks blogs etc it is often difficult to ascertain what pieces of information are suitable for use as a security question. One risk is that the account holder deliberately or inadvertently disclosed the potential security question and answer. While the account holder may not recall or remember such dissemination the information may be available to others through a social network or through a computer network such as the Internet. Another risk is that while the account holder may have never disseminated the answer to a security question someone else has divulged such information. For example a popular security question is What was your mother s maiden name While the user may have never divulged his mother s maiden name a sibling spouse or other person may have divulged this information in a manner where strangers can easily ascertain the user s mother s maiden name.

An approach is provided to secure security questions by checking posts directed at a social network. In the approach requested post is received from one of the social network users. The content of the requested post is compared to previously established security questions and corresponding security answers either established by the user or by another user. The requested post is allowed when the comparison reveals that the content does not compromise one of the previously established security questions and corresponding security answers. However the requested post is rejected if the comparison reveals that the content compromises one of the previously established security questions and corresponding security answers.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects inventive features and advantages of the present invention as defined solely by the claims will become apparent in the non limiting detailed description set forth below.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present disclosure are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The following detailed description will generally follow the summary of the disclosure as set forth above further explaining and expanding the definitions of the various aspects and embodiments of the disclosure as necessary.

The following detailed description will generally follow the summary of the invention as set forth above further explaining and expanding the definitions of the various aspects and embodiments of the invention as necessary. To this end this detailed description first sets forth a computing environment in that is suitable to implement the software and or hardware techniques associated with the invention. A networked environment is illustrated in as an extension of the basic computing environment to emphasize that modern computing techniques can be performed across multiple discrete devices.

Northbridge and Southbridge connect to each other using bus . In one embodiment the bus is a Direct Media Interface DMI bus that transfers data at high speeds in each direction between Northbridge and Southbridge . In another embodiment a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus connects the Northbridge and the Southbridge. Southbridge also known as the I O Controller Hub ICH is a chip that generally implements capabilities that operate at slower speeds than the capabilities provided by the Northbridge. Southbridge typically provides various busses used to connect various components. These busses include for example PCI and PCI Express busses an ISA bus a System Management Bus SMBus or SMB and or a Low Pin Count LPC bus. The LPC bus often connects low bandwidth devices such as boot ROM and legacy I O devices using a super I O chip . The legacy I O devices can include for example serial and parallel ports keyboard mouse and or a floppy disk controller. The LPC bus also connects Southbridge to Trusted Platform Module TPM . Other components often included in Southbridge include a Direct Memory Access DMA controller a Programmable Interrupt Controller PIC and a storage device controller which connects Southbridge to nonvolatile storage device such as a hard disk drive using bus .

ExpressCard is a slot that connects hot pluggable devices to the information handling system. ExpressCard supports both PCI Express and USB connectivity as it connects to Southbridge using both the Universal Serial Bus USB the PCI Express bus. Southbridge includes USB Controller that provides USB connectivity to devices that connect to the USB. These devices include webcam camera infrared IR receiver keyboard and trackpad and Bluetooth device which provides for wireless personal area networks PANs . USB Controller also provides USB connectivity to other miscellaneous USB connected devices such as a mouse removable nonvolatile storage device modems network cards ISDN connectors fax printers USB hubs and many other types of USB connected devices. While removable nonvolatile storage device is shown as a USB connected device removable nonvolatile storage device could be connected using a different interface such as a Firewire interface etcetera.

Wireless Local Area Network LAN device connects to Southbridge via the PCI or PCI Express bus . LAN device typically implements one of the IEEE 0.802.11 standards of over the air modulation techniques that all use the same protocol to wireless communicate between information handling system and another computer system or device. Optical storage device connects to Southbridge using Serial ATA SATA bus . Serial ATA adapters and devices communicate over a high speed serial link. The Serial ATA bus also connects Southbridge to other forms of storage devices such as hard disk drives. Audio circuitry such as a sound card connects to Southbridge via bus . Audio circuitry also provides functionality such as audio line in and optical digital audio in port optical digital output and headphone jack internal speakers and internal microphone . Ethernet controller connects to Southbridge using a bus such as the PCI or PCI Express bus. Ethernet controller connects information handling system to a computer network such as a Local Area Network LAN the Internet and other public and private computer networks.

While shows one information handling system an information handling system may take many forms. For example an information handling system may take the form of a desktop server portable laptop notebook or other form factor computer or data processing system. In addition an information handling system may take other form factors such as a personal digital assistant PDA a gaming device ATM machine a portable telephone device a communication device or other devices that include a processor and memory.

The Trusted Platform Module TPM shown in and described herein to provide security functions is but one example of a hardware security module HSM . Therefore the TPM described and claimed herein includes any type of HSM including but not limited to hardware security devices that conform to the Trusted Computing Groups TCG standard and entitled Trusted Platform Module TPM Specification Version 1.2. The TPM is a hardware security subsystem that may be incorporated into any number of information handling systems such as those outlined in .

Security question list or combo box displays a number of security questions from which the user may select. In addition in one embodiment the user can enter a custom security question if the desired security question does not appear in combo box e.g. Who is my favorite uncle etc. . In the example shown the user has selected security question relating to the name of the user s favorite teacher. Text box is used by the user to enter the security answer to the selected security question. In the example the user has indicated that the name of the user s favorite teacher is Mrs. Adams. When the user has selected the security question and the security answer then the user selects command button Continue . When command button is selected the security question and security answer are provided to security response analyzer process which analyzes the security of the user s security question and answer.

Security response analyzer process searches network accessible data stores for the security answer. In the example shown network accessible data stores include social network data stores maintained by one or more social network sites . In addition network accessible data stores include search engine data stores that are maintained by network search engines . Search results responses are received from the social network sites and the computer network search engines. Security response analyzer process identifies a risk level that pertains to the user s selected security question based on the received search results. In one embodiment the risk level is calculated based on both the accessibility of the security answer as well as the association of the answer to the user. The identified risk level is then transmitted to the user such as by displaying the risk level in text box shown in screen . In non visual environments the risk level can be transmitted to the user in a non visual format e.g. using audible or tactile feedback etc. . In the example shown the risk level is chosen from High Medium and Low. In other embodiments the risk level may be a numeric or alphanumeric representation e.g. a range of risk level representing very low risk to risk level representing a very high risk level etc. .

At step the user provides a list of social network sites frequented by the user as well as access mechanisms such as the user s user identifier and password used by the user to access the social network sites. The list of social network sites and access mechanisms may be maintained in data store which is stored in a secured memory e.g. encrypted inaccessible to others etc. . As an alternative the system could search on the normal social networks or use cookie or use the user s browser history information to gather social network access data rather than having the user manually provide a list of social networks in data store . Configuring data store allows the user to identify the social network sites and access mechanisms used by the user without having to repeatedly create the list each time a security question is being analyzed.

The process shown could be provided as an external service that is plugged in to the user s system such as through the web browser utilized by the user. For example a security question web service used in bank systems may be plugged into their existing infrastructure to provide security analysis. In addition users might already have an account setup with the service that includes all of their social network credentials etc. Therefore users may enter the credentials for this service which will perform the analysis given the inputs that the bank application sends it and then service returns back to the bank site the info to display about security level. At that point the bank website may determine what level of security is needed to be used by the bank s customers. Moreover the site itself could have a policy of not allowing security questions answers that have a particular risk level e.g. only allowing low risk levels etc. .

At predefined process the process analyzes the security of the user provided security question and answer see and corresponding text for processing details . Predefined process retrieves the security question from memory area and the corresponding security answer from memory area . The result of predefined process is a risk level which is stored in memory area and provided to user e.g. displayed on a display screen etc. .

A decision is made as to whether the user wishes to utilize the selected security question and corresponding security answer based upon the risk level identified by predefined process decision . If the user or the security process decides that the selected security question and corresponding security answer are too risky then decision branches to the no branch which loops back and allow the user to select a different security question and corresponding security answer with the process repeating the steps and generating another risk level for the newly selected security question and corresponding security answer. This looping continues until a security question and corresponding security answer have been selected that provide a low acceptable level of risk. When a security question and corresponding security answer have been selected that provide an acceptable level of risk then decision branches to the yes branch whereupon at step the security question and security answer are stored in current security questions answers and applications data store . In addition at step an identifier e.g. website application name etc. corresponding to where the selected security question and answer is also stored in data store . The list of current security questions security answers and application names can be used to periodically recheck the risk level associated with various security questions and answers. For example the user or someone else may deliberately or inadvertently disclose the answer to one of the user s existing security questions. When this happens the risk level associated with the security question and answer increases and user can be alerted in order to change the security question and security answer to a less risky alternative. Processing by the security question analyzer thereafter ends at .

At step the selected social network is queried for the security answer associated with the user s social networking data. The query of the social network site queries both comment areas e.g. users walls etc. as well as document repositories maintained by the selected social network e.g. a shared drive provided to social network users etc. . As used herein posts includes any content in the social network such as comments and the like viewable in the social network as well as documents posted to the social network e.g. stored on a virtual drive provided by the social network etc. . Security answer is transmitted in a query request to selected social network site . At step responses are received from the selected social network site with the responses corresponding to the query regarding the user s security answer.

Some social networks provide search capabilities to the posts and other content stored in the social network. Social network content can be available via search engines. In some social network configurations there is a user setting that sets whether search engines can access the user s profile. In addition some social networks do provide application programming interfaces APIs that allow developers to access information available on the social network. In addition if a system such as the one disclosed herein was implemented as a service in a social network the system would have access to all information stored in the social network. So either native search capabilities or a custom search capability using the social network APIs can be used to provide the query function used to query the social network site.

At step the first response received from the social network site is selected and the selected response is compared with the security question retrieved from memory area . For example if the security question was Favorite teacher and the security answer was Mrs. Adams then responses will be related to occurrences of the last name Adams such as postings or discussions regarding someone with the name Adams. The comparison with the security question identifies whether responses are concerning an Adams that is a teacher instructor mentor etc. as well as responses that are direct hits e.g. my favorite teacher back in elementary school was Mrs. Adams etc. . In one embodiment instead of comparing the security question with the security answer the system simply searches for either the security question or the security answer and compares the results with the user identity. For example the system might search of favorite teacher and compare the results with those related to the user e.g. the former student rather than with the security answer e.g. Mrs. Adams etc. . Likewise the system might search for the security answer e.g. Mrs. Adams and compare the results with those related to the user e.g. the former student rather than with the security question.

A decision is made as to whether a direct match was found in the responses for the security answer in relation to the security question decision . If a direct match was found then decision branches to the yes branch whereupon at step the process sets the risk level to High in memory area indicating that use of this security question and security answer would be risky in that such an answer would be readily ascertainable within the social network community. Processing then returns to the calling routine see at .

Returning to decision if a direct match was not found then decision branches to the no branch whereupon a decision is made as to whether a partial or indirect match was found decision . For example if the user discusses a group of teachers that includes Mrs. Adams then while it might not be obvious that Mrs. Adams was the user s favorite teacher such a deduction could be made given the list of former teachers provided by the user. If a partial or indirect match is identified then decision branches to the yes branch whereupon at step the process sets the risk level to a Medium level to indicate that the answer to the security question may be ascertained with somewhat more effort given the data available to social network users. This medium level of risk is stored in memory area . Returning to decision if a partial indirect match was not identified then decision branches to the no branch bypassing step leaving the current risk level in place.

A decision is made as to whether the search returned more search results to analyze decision . If more responses were returned then decision branches to the yes branch which loops back to select and process the next search result. This looping continues until either a direct match is identified whereupon processing returns at or until there are no more responses to process from the selected social network site at which point decision branches to the no branch. In one embodiment continued analysis may be performed even after receiving a direct hit in order to obtain a more complete understanding of the level of divulgence pertaining to the security question and answer. For example there are differences between public posts and private messages directly to an individual such as a close relative. If the direct message is hit first it may be advantageous to continue searching in order to detect any public post that include the same security question answer.

If there are no more responses to process from the selected social network site decision branching to the no branch then a decision is made as to whether there are additional social network sites to select and query as described above decision . If there are more social network sites to select and query then decision branches to the yes branch which loops back to select and query the next social network sites. This looping continues until either a direct match is identified with processing returning to the calling routine at or until all of the identified social network sites have been processed. When all of the social network sites have been processed then decision branches to the no branch whereupon at predefined process a check is performed using available search engines see and corresponding text for processing details . After the available search engines have been checked processing returns to the calling routine see at .

Processing commences at whereupon at step the first search engine site is selected from the list of search engine sites maintained in data store . At step the selected search engine is queried for the security answer associated with the user s identity e.g. the user s name etc. . Security answer is transmitted in a query request to selected search engine . At step responses are received from the selected search engine site with the responses corresponding to the query regarding the user s security answer.

At step the first response received from the search engine is selected and the selected response is compared with the security question retrieved from memory area . For example if the security question was Favorite teacher and the security answer was Mrs. Adams then responses will be related to occurrences of the last name Adams such as postings or discussions regarding someone with the name Adams. The comparison with the security question identifies whether responses are concerning an Adams that is a teacher instructor mentor etc. as well as responses that are direct hits e.g. my favorite teacher back in elementary school was Mrs. Adams etc. . It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that methods for matching searching semantic analysis etc. are well known to those skilled in the art and therefore do not need to be described in detail herein . Matches will arise even when an exact answer has not been divulged. Using deductive reasoning a breach can be detected based on a match with a question. For example in a post a user states I just met Mrs. Smith my favorite teacher s mom. While the actual security answer Mrs. Adam s is not referenced in the post the system will match the favorite teacher in the post with the question and find references to the name Mrs. Smith and then further relate Mrs. Smith to Mrs. Adams given the posted relationship of mom and identifying relationships to Mrs. Smith e.g. friends of Mrs. Smith listed in the social network etc. . In this manner while Mrs. Adams was never mentioned through deductive reasoning the system would detect a possible security breach with the security question and answer.

A decision is made as to whether a direct match was found in the responses for the security answer in relation to the security question decision . If a direct match was found then decision branches to the yes branch whereupon at step the process sets the risk level to High in memory area indicating that use of this security question and security answer would be risky in that such an answer would be readily ascertainable within the social network community. Processing then returns to the calling routine see at .

Returning to decision if a direct match was not found then decision branches to the no branch whereupon a decision is made as to whether a partial or indirect match was found decision . For example if the user discusses a group of teachers that includes Mrs. Adams then while it might not be obvious that Mrs. Adams was the user s favorite teacher such a deduction could be made given the list of former teachers provided by the user. If a partial or indirect match is identified then decision branches to the yes branch whereupon at step the process sets the risk level to a Medium level to indicate that the answer to the security question may be ascertained with somewhat more effort given the data available to online users. This medium level of risk is stored in memory area . Returning to decision if a partial indirect match was not identified then decision branches to the no branch bypassing step leaving the current risk level in place.

A decision is made as to whether the search returned more search results to analyze from this search engine decision . If more responses were returned from this search engine then decision branches to the yes branch which loops back to select and process the next search result. This looping continues until either a direct match is identified whereupon processing returns at or until there are no more responses to process from the selected search engine at which point decision branches to the no branch.

If there are no more responses to process from the selected search engine decision branching to the no branch then a decision is made as to whether there are additional search engines to select and query as described above decision . If there are more search engines to select and query then decision branches to the yes branch which loops back to select and query the next search engine. This looping continues until either a direct match is identified with processing returning to the calling routine at or until all of the identified search engines have been processed. When all of the search engines have been processed then decision branches to the no branch whereupon processing returns to the calling routine see at .

As shown in when a security question and security answer are successfully selected for an application the data is stored in data store . At step the first application e.g. website online account etc. is selected from data store along with the security question and security answer currently being used for the selected application.

At predefined process the selected security question and security answer are analyzed by the security analysis routine see and corresponding text for processing details . The results of predefined process is an updated risk level that is stored in memory area . This updated risk level is retrieved at step .

A decision is made as to whether the updated risk level is Low decision . If the updated risk level is not Low then decision branches to the no branch whereupon at step the user is alerted of an updated risk level pertaining to the selected application that uses the selected security question and answer. In one embodiment the updated risk level is compared to a user sensitivity threshold that indicates the user s tolerance for risk. For example the user may indicate that he does not wish to be alerted unless the process identifies a High risk level. The user sensitivity threshold is retrieved from memory area . In another embodiment the user may indicate that he does not wish to be alerted unless the updated risk level is greater than the previous risk level associated with the security question and answer. For example when the user set up the security question and answer the original risk level may have been identified as Medium but the user elected to use the selected security question and answer despite the risk. If the updated risk level is still at a Medium level then the user in this embodiment would not be alerted. If the user is being alerted then user is alerted as to the updated risk level which is conveyed along with the selected application. In this manner the user can change the security question and security answer at the selected application in order to choose a more secure question and answer with a lower level of risk. Returning to decision if the risk level is found to be Low then decision branches to the yes branch bypassing step . In one embodiment a dashboard type display is provided in which all of the user s security questions and answers are securely provided to the user with their current associated risk levels as well as any trends as security risk levels have changed over time.

A decision is made as to whether there are more applications stored in data store with security questions and security answers that need to be analyzed using the background analyzer decision . If there are additional applications to select then decision branches to the yes branch which loops back to select the next application along with the security question and security answer currently in place at the application. The security question and answer are analyzed as described above with the user being alerted if the updated risk level meets certain criteria. This looping continues until there are no more applications to select from data store at which point decision branches to the no branch. At step processing enters a wait state whereupon the process waits for the next trigger as described above to occur. When the next trigger occurs then processing loops back to the beginning of the process step to re execute the steps of the background analyzer process as described above.

In one embodiment user accesses supported websites by providing authentication data e.g. user identifier password etc. to front end common authentication website in dataflow . Authentication process authenticates the authentication data provided by the user that is attempting to log onto one of the websites either website or one of supported websites . If the user is successfully authenticated then authentication process provides authenticated users credentials to the supported website to which the user s authentication request is directed in dataflow .

Once user has been authenticated and has established a session with one of website or one of supported websites then the user can requests posts to various content areas of the website with which the user has established the session. In two different embodiments are shown based upon whether front end common authentication website is being used to filter posts directed to supported websites or whether the supported websites are using the front end common authentication website as a service to check requested posts on the supported website s behalf.

In the first embodiment where front end common authentication website is being used to filter posts directed to supported websites user post requests dataflow A are shown being directed or redirected to front end common authentication website where front end common authentication website s process is performed to check the requested post based on previously established security questions and answers for all users of all of the websites website as well as supported websites . The previously established security questions and answers for all of the users are stored in data store . As shown in front end common authentication website checks whether the requested post compromises a previously established security questions and answers of one of the users. If the requested post fails to compromise any of the previously established security questions and answers then a filtered post is sent to the supported website with which the user previously established a session dataflow A . The supported website receives the post in dataflow A and updates content maintained by the website using the post contents. On the other hand if the requested post compromises any of the previously established security questions and answers then a rejection is sent back to user dataflow A and the requested post is not transmitted to the supported website nor is the requested post added as content to any of the websites.

In the second embodiment where front end common authentication website is being used as a service to check requested posts on the supported website s behalf dataflow B shows the user s requested post being sent directly to the supported website . Prior to updating the supported website s content with the post the supported website sends a request dataflow B to front end common authentication website requesting a security check of the requested post. As previously described front end common authentication website s process is performed to check the requested post based on previously established security questions and answers for all users of all of the websites website as well as supported websites . The previously established security questions and answers for all of the users are stored in data store . As shown in front end common authentication website checks whether the requested post compromises a previously established security questions and answers of one of the users. A security check reply dataflow B is sent from front end common authentication website back to the requesting website . If the requested post fails to compromise any of the previously established security questions and answers then dataflow B indicates that the post is safe to be posted at the requesting website and the website handles the post operation. On the other hand if the requested post compromises any of the previously established security questions and answers then reply dataflow B indicates that the post is unsafe as it compromises one or more previously established security questions and answers and the requesting website rejects the requested post and sends the user a rejection reply dataflow B .

At step the check process searches previously established security questions of all users for content included in post . As shown data store is a collection of all user s previously established security questions and answers . In one embodiment the previously established security questions and answers were established using the process previously shown and described in . The questions that match items in post are stored in matching questions memory area for further analysis. In one embodiment the identity of the owner of the security question that matches the requested post is also retained in memory area in order to ascertain whether the owner intentionally or unintentionally attempted to compromise his own security question so that an appropriate warning can be conveyed to the owner user .

At step the check process searches previously established security answers of all users for content included in post . The answers that match items in post are stored in matching answers memory area for further analysis. As described above in one embodiment the identity of the owner of the security answer that matches the requested post is also retained in memory area in order to ascertain whether the owner intentionally or unintentionally attempted to compromise his own security answer so that an appropriate warning can be conveyed to the owner user .

At predefined process the matching questions are compared with the matching answers to identify possible security breaches that are stored in memory area see and corresponding text for processing details . After predefined process has executed revealing any possible security compromises a decision is made as to whether the requested post is acceptable decision . The requested post is acceptable if the comparison performed in predefined process reveal that the contents of the requested post fail to compromise any of the previously established security questions and answers. If the requested post is acceptable then decision branches to the yes branch whereupon at step the requested post is allowed and an appropriate post allowed reply is returned to requestor .

On the other hand if the requested post is unacceptable then decision branches to the no branch for further processing. A post is unacceptable and therefore rejected in response to the comparison performed in predefined process revealing that the contents of the requested post compromises one of the previously established security questions and answers. At step a check is made of possible security breach data stored in memory area to ascertain whether the user that submitted the requested post is also the owner of the previously established security questions and answers that are compromised by the post. For example the user may have previously used a favorite teacher as a security question and the name of the favorite teacher e.g. Mrs. Adams etc. as the corresponding security answer. Subsequently the user may be discussing past school memories with friends and attempt to post I remember back in school when my favorite teacher was Mrs. Adams she was great Allowing such a post would compromise the user s previously established security question and answer so the post is rejected. In one embodiment the owner of a security answer question is prompted a post may compromise a security question however in this embodiment the owner can allow the content to be posted anyway e.g. if the site was not important to the user the owner no longer had an intention to use the security question on the web sites which were in active use the user deemed that the post was more important than a small security risk etc. .

A decision is made as to whether the owner of the previously established security questions and answers is also the user that submitted post request decision . If the owner of the previously established security questions and answers is also the user that submitted post request then decision branches to the yes branch whereupon a decision is made as to whether the system is configured to provide the owner of the previously established security questions and answers with a reason for the rejected post decision . If a reason is to be provided then decision branches to the yes branch whereupon at step the post rejection reasons e.g. you have a security question and corresponding security answer that would be compromised by this post etc. is included in the rejection reply data.

At step the requested post is rejected. If the owner of the previously established security questions and answers is not the same as the user of the requested post decision branching to the no branch or if the system is not configured to provide an owner with reasons that the post was rejected decision branching to the no branch then the negative reply returned to requestor does not include reasons for the rejection. However if rejection reasons were included in the reply data at step then these rejection reasons are included in the return reply to requestor . Processing performed to check a requested post thereafter ends at .

At step the first matching question that resulted from the search of the requested post contents in the previously established security questions is selected from memory area . At step the process retrieves the previously established answer from one of the users accounts where the selected question was found with the retrieved answer corresponding to the selected question e.g. the name of a teacher if the question pertains to the user s favorite teacher etc. . The retrieved answer is stored in memory area . At step the retrieved answer stored in memory area is compared to the list of matching answers stored in memory area . The matching answers were previously gathered by searching the previously established security answers for the content included in the user s requested post.

A decision is made as to whether the retrieved answer matches one of the matching answers stored in memory area decision . If the retrieved answer matches one of the matching answers stored in memory area then decision branches to the yes branch for breach processing. During breach processing at step the breach flag is set to TRUE to indicate that at least one of the previously established security questions and answers is compromised by the user s requested post. Also during breach processing at step the previously established security question and answer found to match the requested post are stored in possible security breach memory area along with the identifier of the owner user of the previously established security question and answer. This data is used in to determine whether the owner of the previously established security question and answer is inadvertently attempting to compromise the security of his own previously established security questions and answers with the requested post so that the user can be properly warned.

A decision is made as to whether there are additional matching security questions in memory area that need to be processed decision . If there are additional questions to process then decision branches to the yes branch which loops back to select and process the next matching question from memory area as described above. This looping continues until all of the matching questions from memory area at which point decision branches to the no branch whereupon processing returns to the calling routine see at .

Each user enters the requested post into text box and selects Post Comment command button to request that the post be made to a social network. The requested post content is received by post checker process that checks whether one or more previously established security questions and answers would be compromised by the requested post. The post reply from post checker process is display area within the respective windows. In top window the non owner of the previously established security questions and answers matching the requested post content post reply does not indicate the identity of the owner s of the previously established security questions and answers whose security would be compromised by the requested post. However in bottom window the owner of the previously established security questions and answers matching the requested post content post reply warns the owner user requesting the post that one of the user s previously established security questions and answers would be compromised by the requested post.

One of the preferred implementations of the invention is a client application namely a set of instructions program code or other functional descriptive material in a code module that may for example be resident in the random access memory of the computer. Until required by the computer the set of instructions may be stored in another computer memory for example in a hard disk drive or in a removable memory such as an optical disk for eventual use in a CD ROM or floppy disk for eventual use in a floppy disk drive . Thus the present invention may be implemented as a computer program product for use in a computer. In addition although the various methods described are conveniently implemented in a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by software one of ordinary skill in the art would also recognize that such methods may be carried out in hardware in firmware or in more specialized apparatus constructed to perform the required method steps. Functional descriptive material is information that imparts functionality to a machine. Functional descriptive material includes but is not limited to computer programs instructions rules facts definitions of computable functions objects and data structures.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein that changes and modifications may be made without departing from this invention and its broader aspects. Therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this invention. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is solely defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those with skill in the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim element is intended such intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such limitation is present. For non limiting example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim elements. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim element by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim element to inventions containing only one such element even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an the same holds true for the use in the claims of definite articles.

