---

title: Pre-charge tracking of global read lines in high speed SRAM
abstract: In embodiments of the invention, a memory circuit includes a static random access memory (SRAM), rows of M sense amplifiers, a global read precharge tracking control circuit controlling a precharge of global read lines, a sense amplifier output tracking circuit generating a reset sense amplifier signal for the sense amplifier control circuits, and a read delay circuit generating a trigger signal for the global read precharge tracking control circuit and the sense amplifier output tracking circuit and performing a fixed delay tracking of a read operation in a read cycle. A dummy global read line is coupled to the global read precharge tracking control circuit and returns from a half way to the top of the SRAM forming a tracking dummy global read line that determines a completion of the precharge of the global read lines before the sense amplifiers start discharging the global read lines in the read cycle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08879303&OS=08879303&RS=08879303
owner: LSI Corporation
number: 08879303
owner_city: Milpitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130103
---
High speed static random access memory SRAM architectures typically use a sense amplifier and two global read lines to load data into an output latch in a global input output GIO Block. This requires two operations finished before the sense amplifier starts discharging one of the global read lines. The first operation is a precharging of the global read lines should get completed before a sense amplifier enable signal arrives. The second operation is the global read lines precharging operation should is finished to avoid contention on the global read lines before the sense amplifier starts discharging one of the global read lines. Across various pressure voltage and temperatures PVTs and instance sizes it is difficult to meet the above two margin conditions and failure to meet these margins results in functional failure of the SRAMs and huge dynamic power consumption.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Described embodiments provide a memory circuit that includes a static random access memory SRAM including N banks of memory cells each bank having M columns where M and N are positive integers rows of M sense amplifiers each row of the M sense amplifiers placed between two banks of the memory cells each row of the M sense amplifiers coupled to a sense amplifier control circuit and a local input output circuit LIO each column of the M sense amplifiers corresponding to a bit of the memory cell the bit having corresponding global read lines a global read precharge tracking control circuit controlling a precharge of the global read lines using a track dummy global read line signal a sense amplifier output tracking circuit generating a reset sense amplifier signal for the sense amplifier control circuits and a read delay circuit generating a trigger signal for the global read precharge tracking control circuit and the sense amplifier output tracking circuit and performing a fixed delay tracking of a read operation in a read cycle. A dummy global read line is coupled to the global read precharge tracking control circuit and returns from a half way to the top of the SRAM forming a tracking dummy global read line that determines a completion of the precharge of the global read lines before the sense amplifiers start discharging the global read lines in the read cycle.

Embodiments of the invention relate to tracking a precharging operation of global read lines GRDLs in a SRAM including both horizontal tracking and vertical tracking. The described embodiments provide a configuration and method to detect precharge completion thus allowing margin free tracking across PVTs and instance ranges and thereby improving cycle time and dynamic power. The described embodiments provide following two margin conditions. One is a precharge of the GRDLs that is completed before a sense amplifier enable SAen signal arrives. The other one is the GRDLs precharge operation is finished to avoid contention on the GRDLs before a sense amplifier enable signal arrives. The described embodiments provide a margin free READ operation thereby improving performance and robustness of the SRAM and a cycle time and dynamic power of the SRAM.

The following detailed description utilizes a number of acronyms which are generally well known in the art. While definitions are typically provided with the first instance of each acronym for convenience Table 1 provides a list of the acronyms and abbreviations used along with their respective definitions.

As shown in SRAM system includes SRAM sense amplifier control SACTRL circuits . . . N 2 internal clock circuit INT CLK read delay circuit RDC sense amplifier to output tracking circuit SAOTC and global read precharge tracking control circuit GRDPT CTRL . SRAM includes banks . . . N 1 and N bits M 1 and M sense amplifier SA rows . . . N 2 global inputs and outputs circuit GIO inverter and dummy global inputs and outputs circuit DGIO .

Banks . . . N 1 and N each is an array of core cells of SRAM . N banks of SRAM each has M bits M 1 and each bit has two global bitlines. The two global bitlines are GRDT and GRDC. For example bit has global read lines GRDT  and GRDC  . . . bit M has global read lines GRDT M GRDC M.

SA rows . . . N 2 each is placed between two banks. For example SA row is placed between bank and bank SA row is placed between bank and bank not shown SA row N 2 is placed between bank N 1 and bank N. SA rows . . . N 2 each has M sense amplifiers. For example SA row includes SA . . . M SA row N 2 includes SA N 2 . . . N 2 . Each column of the array of the SAs corresponds to a column of bits in each bank of the core cells. Each column of the sense amplifiers is connected together and coupled to the corresponding GIO of the corresponding bit. For example SA N 2 M is connected to SA M and then coupled to GIO M of bit M . . . SA N 2 is connected to SA and then coupled to GIO of bit . Thus each SA is coupled to the corresponding GRDLs i.e. GRDT and GRDC . SAs . . . M . . . N 2 . . . N 2 M are implemented with any existing and prospective sense amplifier known in the art.

Each SA row has a sense amplifier control SACTRL circuit that controls the each SA row. For example SACTRL  controls SA row SMPCTRL  N 2 N 2 controls SA row N 2 . Each SACTRL circuit includes a sense amplifier precharge SAPRCH circuit that generates a sense amplifier reset signal e.g. SARST  . . . SARST  N 2 for the sense amplifiers in the each row. Each SACTRL circuit also includes a sense amplifier to output generator circuit SAOEG that generates a sense amplifier enable signal e.g. SAen  . . . SAen  N 2 for the M sense amplifiers in the each row. For example SACTL  includes SAPRCH and SAORG SACTL N 2 include SAPRCH N 2 and SAOEG N 2 .

GIO includes GIO . . . M 1 and M. Each GIO for the each bit of the N banks is coupled to the each column of the SA array for the each corresponding bit. For example GIO is coupled to SA . . . N 2 for bit GIO is coupled to SA . . . N 2 for bit . . . GIO M 1 is coupled to SENAMP M 1 . . . N 2 M 1 for bit M 1 GIO M is coupled to SENAMP M . . . N 2 M for bit M. A global read line precharge GRDL PRCH signal generated from GRDPT CTRL is applied to GIO to precharge the GRDLs. At a half way to the right of SRAM the GRDL PRCH signal propagates to DGIO through inverter forming a horizontal track global read line precharge TRACK GRDL PRCH signal. The TRACK GRDL PRCH signal generated from DGIO then returns to GRDPT CTRL . DGIO includes DGIO . . . M that has a half number of DGIO elements lees than that of GIO .

A dummy global read line DGRDL coupled to GRDPT CTRL mimics the GRDLs. A DGRDL signal returns at a half way to the top of SRAM to GRDPT CTRL forming a vertical track dummy GRDL TRACK DUMMY GRDL signal.

INT CLK generates an internal clock INT CLK signal for SRAM system . More specifically as shown in the INT CLK is sent into RDC at CLK1 node and SAOTC at CLK2 node.

RDC performs a fixed delay tracking of a READ operation in a READ cycle in SRAM system . RDC has two inputs e.g. A1 and CLK1 nodes and one output put e.g. Q1 node . is an exemplary schematic view of a read delay circuit shown in . As shown RDC includes inverters NOR gate and inverter . Inverters include an even number of inverters connected in series. Inverters and inverter are coupled to inputs of NOR gate respectively. RDC takes the INT CLK signal as the input at the CLK1 node and a return signal of sense amplifier reset signal i.e. TRACK RESET SA shown in as the input at the A1 node. RDC generates a trigger signal e.g. TRIGGER SAOTC shown in as the output at the Q1 node. A default state of the A1 node is HIGH i.e. the default state of the TRACK RESET SA signal is HIGH. When a rising edge of the INT CLK arrives at the CLK1 node the output at the Q1 node falls which suggests READ data from a selected bank is ready at the input of the sense amplifier in the corresponding local IO. Then the output at the Q1 node reaches to SAOTC as the trigger signal i.e. TRIGGER SAOTC .

Returning to SAOTC is a sense amplifier to output latch tracking that applies any conventional sense amplifier to output latch tracking method. SAOTC has an input CLK2 a trigger signal input TS node and an output Q2 node. The TRIGGER SAOTC signal generated from RDC is sent into SAOTC through the TS node. The CLK2 node is a signal split from the TRIGGER SAOTC signal generated by RDC . SAOTC generates a reset sense amplifier RESET SA signal sent to each SACTRL i.e. SACTRL  . . . SACTRL N 2 N 2 respectively from the output Q2 node. The SAPRCH and SAOEG in the each SACTRL receive the RESET SA signal from SAOTC to generate the SAen signals and the SARST signals for the sense amplifiers. For example SAPRCH . . . SAPRCH N 2 receive the RESET SA signal from SAOTC to generate SARST  . . . SARST  N 2 respectively and SAOEG . . . SAOEG N 2 receive the RESET SA signal from SAOTC to generate SAen  . . . SAen N 2 respectively.

GRDPT CTRL circuit controls switching ON and OFF of a precharge of the GRDLs i.e. all GRDTs and GRDCs using the TRACK DUMMY GRDL signal. shows an exemplary schematic view of a GRDPT CTRL circuit shown in .

As shown GRDL CTRL circuit includes two circuits . Circuit includes inverter NAND gate inverter and NAND gate . Inverter is coupled to an input of NAND gate . Inverter is coupled to an input of NAND gate . An output of inverter is coupled to the other input of NAND gate . Circuit has input nodes B C and F that receive the TRACK DUMMY GRDL TRIGGER SAOTC and TRACK RESET SA signals respectively and an output node D that outputs the GRDL PRCH signal. Circuit is a signal inverter that has an input node E that inputs the TRACK GRDL PRCH signal and an output node A2 that outputs the DUMMY GRDL signal. When the TRACK GRDL PRCH signal arrives at the input node E of circuit the DUMMY GRDL signal comes out the output node A2 of circuit and then the TRACK DUMMY GRDL signal turns back to the input node B of circuit . The TRACK DUMMY GRDL signal at the input node B then combines with the TRIGGER SAOTC signal and the TRACK RESET SA signal input from the input modes C and F respectively to output the GRDL PRCH signal sending into GIO and SAOEG . . . SAOEG N 2 . Here the TRACK DUMMY GRDL signal is the DUMMY GRDL signal returning from a half way to the top of SRAM that tracks the DUMMY GRDL signal The TRIGGER SAOTC signal is shared with SAOTC The TRACK GRDL PRCH signal is the GRDL PRCH signal returning from a half way to the right of SRAM that tracks the GRDL PRCH signal. The TRACK RESET SA signal is the REST SA signal returning from the half way to the top of SRAM that tracks the REST SA signal.

Referring to when the INT CLK transitions HIGH the TRIGGER SAOTC signal falls which causes the TRACK DUMMY GRDL signal HIGH and subsequently switch OFF the precharge of the GRDLs i.e. the GRDT1 GRDC1 . . . GRDT M and GRDC M in GIO . Simultaneously the GRDL PRCH signal turns halfway from the right of SRAM and returns to GRDPT CTRL circuit as the TRACK GRDL PRCH signal at the input E node which is a horizontal tracking of the GRDL PRCH signal. A rising of the TRACK GRDL PRCH signal discharges the DUMMY GRDL at the output A2 node which travels the half way from the top of SRAM and return to GRDPT CTRL circuit as the TRACK DUMMY GRDL signal that is a vertical tracking of the sense amplifier storing data on the GRDLs. Then GRDPT CTRL circuit waits for a rising edge of the TRACK RESET SA signal which triggers a rising edge of the GRDL PRCH and in turn precharge the DUMMY GRDL and the GRDLs and make GRDPT CTRL circuit ready for the next cycle.

As shown at step a trigger signal is generated from a read delay circuit by receiving an internal clock and a track sense amplifier rest signal in a read cycle. When a rising edge of the internal clock arrives the track reset sense amplifier signal goes to LOW from a default state of HIGH. At step the trigger signal is forwarded into a sense amplifier to output tracking circuit for generating a reset sense amplifier signal for sense amplifier control circuits to reset sense amplifiers and a global read line precharge control circuit for generating a global read line precharge signal for precharge of global read lines and dummy global read lines respectively. At step the trigger signal is switched OFF after a fixed delay set in the read delay circuit in the read cycle. This results in following two operations at step . One operation triggers a sense amplifier to output latch tracking through the sense amplifier to output tracking circuit. The other operation simultaneously triggers switching OFF a precharge of global read lines and dummy global read lines. At step after switching OFF the precharge of the global read lines and the dummy global read lines sense amplifiers start discharging one of the global read lines in a bit depending on data stored in corresponding address locations in a bank of the SRAM. Simultaneously a track global read line precharge signal starts discharging a track dummy global read lines signal coupled to the global read line precharge control circuit. At step the internal clock is reset to LOW the track reset sense amplifier signal is reset to HIGH. Then the precharge of the global read lines and the dummy global read lines is triggered to switch ON by generating a rising edge of the global read line precharge signal which precharges the track dummy global read lines and make the SRAM ready for the next read cycle.

The advantages of the described embodiments are as follows. A precharge of the global read lines GRDLs i.e. all GRDTs and GRDCs in GIO using the GRDL PRCH signal is finished before the sense amplifier starts discharging the GRDLs. This ensures that a READ operation does not fail due to an early arrival of the TRIGGER SAOTC signal. This also improves an access time and cycle time of SRAMs by eliminating possible contention on the GRDLs between the sense amplifier enable signals SAens and the TRIGGER SAOTC signals. Furthermore the described embodiments ensure that short circuit current on the GRDLs due to the sense amplifier discharging the GRDLs and the TRIGGER SAOTC signal pre charging the GRDLs is eliminated across all PVTs and instance sizes of the SRAM thus providing a GRDL precharge operation a margin free tracking of the GRDL precharge operation. This enhances the performance and robustness of the SRAMs across PVTs and instance sizes. Furthermore in the described embodiments the GRDL precharge operation is tracked which results in a significant improvement in a cycle time and dynamic power.

Reference herein to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment of the invention nor are separate or alternative embodiments necessarily mutually exclusive of other embodiments. The same applies to the term implementation. 

As used in this application the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Additionally the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Although the subject matter described herein is described in the context of illustrative implementations to process one or more computing application features operations for a computing application having user interactive components the subject matter is not limited to these particular embodiments. Rather the techniques described herein can be applied to any suitable type of user interactive component execution management methods systems platforms and or apparatus.

While the exemplary embodiments have been described with respect to processes of circuits including possible implementation as a single integrated circuit a multi chip module a single card or a multi card circuit pack the embodiments are not so limited. As would be apparent to one skilled in the art various functions of circuit elements are also implemented as processing blocks in a software program. Such software is employed in for example a digital signal processor micro controller or general purpose computer.

Unless explicitly stated otherwise each numerical value and range should be interpreted as being approximate as if the word about or approximately preceded the value of the value or range.

The use of figure numbers and or figure reference labels in the claims is intended to identify one or more embodiments of the invention in order to facilitate the interpretation of the claims. Such use is not to be construed as necessarily limiting the scope of those claims to the embodiments shown in the corresponding figures.

It should be understood that the steps of the embodiments of the invention that are methods set forth herein are not necessarily required to be performed in the order described and the order of the steps of such methods should be understood to be merely exemplary. Likewise additional steps are included in such methods and certain steps are omitted or combined in methods consistent with various embodiments.

Although the elements in the following method claims if any are recited in a particular sequence with corresponding labeling unless the claim recitations otherwise imply a particular sequence for implementing some or all of those elements those elements are not necessarily intended to be limited to being implemented in that particular sequence.

Also for purposes of this description the terms couple coupling coupled connect connecting or connected refer to any manner known in the art or later developed in which energy is allowed to be transferred between two or more elements and the interposition of one or more additional elements is contemplated although not required. Conversely the terms directly coupled directly connected etc. imply the absence of such additional elements.

Also for purposes of this description it is understood that all gates are powered from a fixed voltage power domain or domains and ground unless shown otherwise. Accordingly all digital signals generally have voltages that range from approximately ground potential to that of one of the power domains and transition slew quickly. However and unless stated otherwise ground is considered a power source having a voltage of approximately zero volts and a power source having any desired voltage is substituted for ground. Therefore all gates are powered by at least two power sources with the attendant digital signals therefrom having voltages that range between the approximate voltages of the power sources.

Signals and corresponding nodes or ports are referred to by the same name and are interchangeable for purposes here.

Transistors are typically shown as single devices for illustrative purposes. However it is understood by those with skill in the art that transistors will have various sizes e.g. gate width and length and characteristics e.g. threshold voltage gain etc. and consist of multiple transistors coupled in parallel to get desired electrical characteristics from the combination. Further the illustrated transistors may be composite transistors.

As used in this specification and claims the term output node refers generically to either the source or drain of a metal oxide semiconductor MOS transistor device also referred to as a MOSFET and the term control node refers generically to the gate of the MOSFET. Similarly as used in the claims the terms source drain and gate should be understood to refer either to the source drain and gate of a MOSFET or to the emitter collector and base of a bi polar device when the embodiment is implemented using bi polar transistor technology.

No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using one of the phrases means for or step for. 

It will be further understood that various changes in the details materials and arrangements of the parts which have been described and illustrated in order to explain of described embodiments may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope as expressed in the following claims.

