---

title: Subaperture clutter filter with CFAR signal detection
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to the determination of whether a received signal comprising radar clutter further comprises a communication signal. The communication signal can comprise of a preamble, a data symbol, communication data, etc. A first portion of the radar clutter is analyzed to determine a radar signature of the first portion of the radar clutter. A second portion of the radar clutter can be extracted based on the radar signature of the first portion. Following extraction, any residual signal can be analyzed to retrieve preamble data, etc. The received signal can be based upon a linear frequency modulation (e.g., a chirp modulation) whereby the chirp frequency can be determined and the frequency of transmission of the communication signal can be based accordingly thereon. The duration and/or bandwidth of the communication signal can be a portion of the duration and/or the bandwidth of the radar clutter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09429644&OS=09429644&RS=09429644
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09429644
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131014
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Synthetic aperture radar SAR is a radar technique whereby a radar system moves relative to a target region e.g. a radar antenna is located on an aircraft flying over a target region of interest. In conjunction with transmission and reception of electromagnetic radiation utilized for radar signaling e.g. radar waves the antenna can also be utilized to transmit and receive electromagnetic radiation for communication between the aircraft and another system e.g. a ground based transmitter . Simultaneous SAR imaging and radio frequency RF communication involves collecting data with the airborne radar platform while a ground based transmitter is simultaneously communicating to the radar antenna in a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum which can overlap an operating range of the radar. Hence signaling received at the radar antenna can comprise of a combination of radar clutter and a communication signal. The concepts presented supra are illustrated in where an aircraft equipped with a radar antenna system is flying over a target terrain where the target terrain can also include man made structures buildings such as a transmission structure . Radar waves are being transmitted from antenna system and reflected radar waves e.g. reflected off of terrain structure etc. are reflected back to antenna system . As well as antenna system receiving reflected radar signals antenna system can also simultaneously receive communication signal transmitted from transmission structure . However the radar clutter return e.g. radar waves can appear as noise or interference on the communication channel e.g. communication signal and can thus effect a reduction in the performance of the communication channel. It is to be appreciated that transmission structure can be any suitable system such as the previously mentioned transmission tower as well as a vehicle based system a portable system e.g. carried by military personnel etc.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various exemplary embodiments presented herein relate to determining an existence of a communication signal associated with a received signal further comprising radar clutter. In an exemplary embodiment a signal detection system can be configured to receive a signal comprising a combination of a communication signal and radar clutter. In an embodiment the communication signal can have a frequency configured in accordance with a frequency of a radar transmission signal originating the radar clutter.

Another exemplary embodiment is presented which comprises a method for determination of a radar signature and based thereon determining whether a communication signal exists. The method comprising extracting a communication signal from a signal being received wherein the received signal further comprises radar clutter. In an embodiment the communication signal can be band limited according to at least one parameter associated with the radar clutter.

A further exemplary embodiment for determination of the existence of a communication signal in a signal further comprising radar clutter can comprise a memory that includes instructions that when executed by a processor of the radar system cause the processor to perform acts comprising receiving a signal comprising radar clutter and a communication signal. In a further embodiment the acts include generating a first subaperture comprising a first portion of the radar clutter and further generating a second subaperture comprising the communication signal and a second portion of the radar clutter wherein the first subaperture has a same area as the second subaperture. In a further embodiment the acts can include determining a signature of the first portion of the radar clutter and in a further embodiment filtering the second subaperture with the first portion signature to facilitate removal of the second portion of the radar clutter from the second aperture facilitating identifying an existence of the communication signal in the second aperture.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to determination of a communication signal being included in signaling comprising radar clutter are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

The term or is intended herein to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

It is to be appreciated that while illustrates communication signal to be located timewise in the second half of the duration of radar signal the various embodiments presented herein are not so limited and the communication signal can be located at any point relative to the temporal existence of radar signal . For example turning briefly to communication signal can be located in the central portion of radar signal . As shown in regions E and G comprise of radar clutter only while central region F comprises of both communication signaling and radar clutter .

It is to be further appreciated that while illustrates communication signal having a duration of half of that of the duration of the radar signal e.g. 50 s versus 100 s the various embodiments presented herein are not so limited and the communication signal can be of any duration relative to the duration of the radar signal e.g. 20 s versus 100 s 50 s versus 80 s 10 s versus 90 s etc. . Furthermore it is to be appreciated that while illustrates radar signal having a duration of 100 s and communication signal having a duration of 50 s the respective duration of each of the radar signal and the communication signal can be of any length. In an embodiment the duration of the communication signal can be less than the duration of the radar signal . In another embodiment the duration of the radar signal can be of a duration greater than the duration of the communication signal duration to facilitate determination of a portion of signaling only comprising radar signal e.g. only radar signal clutter from which a comparison of the radar signal e.g. regions A and B with the signaling portion comprising radar signal and communication signaling e.g. region C .

Turning to the respective bandwidths of the radar signal and the communication signal are presented. In an embodiment the respective signal bandwidths of radar signal and communication signal can be of any required magnitude. For example as shown in the bandwidth of radar signal can be 100 megahertz MHz while the bandwidth of the communication signal can be of a lesser magnitude e.g. 50 MHz. As illustrated in radar signal can be operating as a chirp with radar signal located in a stream of radar chirps i.e. between a previous radar chirp and a subsequent radar chirp .

Hence as illustrated in in conjunction with reference to the various embodiments presented herein relate to identifying signaling which comprises a radar signal only and based on such identification extracting aka filtering the radar signal from signaling comprising both radar signal and communication signal to facilitate identification of the existence of a communication signal and further to determine the data included in the communication signal. Such data included in a communication signal can be any of an initial indicator e.g. a header data packet or a preamble data packet indicating that communication data is to follow in one or more subsequent communication signals an end of transmission signal or the data can be any information conveyed between a transmitter e.g. ground station and an antenna e.g. antenna . A communication signal to be transmitted from a communication apparatus to a radar apparatus can comprise of a preamble followed by data symbols.

As further explained herein filtering the radar clutter from a communications channel can facilitate provision of constant false alarm rate CFAR for detection of a preamble communication and can further discriminate between a communication signal and normal radar clutter return. As conveyed in in an embodiment a band limited communication transmitter can be utilized where the band limited communication transmitter can be configured to enable generation of multiple subaperture data sets at the radar. In an embodiment by utilizing a transmitter that is RF band limited the data support of a communications signal within a phase history domain is also limited in the range direction which enables generation of a plurality of subapertures where each subaperture can have a unique signal response. Further the various embodiments presented herein can be implemented in any suitable radar signaling system where such signaling system can include a single antenna system in conjunction with low pulse repetition intervals as utilized in SAR imaging.

At as described further herein the radar signal can be identified e.g. the radar signature in the first portion of the radar signal communication signal transmission received as an input at the antenna. Once the radar signal signature is known the signature can act as a foundation against which existence of a communication signal can be determined.

At based on determining the radar signal signature in the first portion an equivalent signature e.g. noise clutter etc. can be filtered from the second portion. Any signaling e.g. signal residue remaining after the first radar signature has been filtered from the second portion can be considered to be the communication signal. In an embodiment the magnitude of the communication signal bandwidth can be of a magnitude to facilitate determination of the existence of the communication signal. For example even though the first radar signature has been determined with regard to noise clutter etc. the magnitude of the communication signal bandwidth is of a sufficient magnitude to facilitate detection relative to the first radar signature. For example in an embodiment the first radar signature is of a magnitude of 100 MHz while the communication signal has a magnitude of 50 MHz.

At the communication signal can be processed. In an embodiment the communication signal can be a preamble signal indicating that a communication is to follow. In another embodiment the communication signal can comprise of all or a portion of a communication being transmitted to an antenna system e.g. the communication signal comprises all or a portion of the data symbols to be transmitted to an antenna system. The acts presented in are further expanded upon with reference to .

At based upon at least one of the frequency of the radar signal the bandwidth of the radar signal or other parameter associated with the radar signal the properties of the communication signal to be communicated from the communication apparatus to the antenna system can be configured. For example where the bandwidth of the radar signal is determined to be 100 MHz where a radar signal to communication signal bandwidth ratio is to be configured at 2 1 then the communication signal can be configured with a bandwidth of 50 MHz. Further where the radar signal is identified to have a duration of X s and a transmit frequency of Y then the communication signal can be configured to have a duration of N s and transmission of the communication signal initiates relative to transmission of the radar signal e.g. at half of the duration X for the communication signal to be combined with the radar signal for the second half of the existence of the radar signal . Hence the communication signal can be configured to have a frequency and or a duration to facilitate location of the communication signal in a portion of a radar signal reflected back to the antenna system.

At the communication signal can be transmitted from the communication apparatus in accordance with the determined parameters of the reflected radar signal.

An overview of model is briefly presented and further expanded upon in the sub sections. At initially phase history data e.g. polar data comprising radar clutter and a communication signal can be resampled to lie on a rectangular grid. At the phase history data is subsequently filtered e.g. in the range dimension to create two subapertures a first subaperture and a second subaperture. The first subaperture can include only radar clutter return aka clutter only data while the second subaperture can include radar clutter return and a communications signal aka clutter and signal data . At a Fourier transform can be subsequently applied to the first subaperture and the second subaperture in the range dimension generating range compressed data. A first range compressed data set element R contains clutter data only and a second range compressed data set element S contains clutter and signal data. At spectral estimation in the cross range dimension can be further applied to the clutter only range compressed data element R. Spectral estimation in the cross range dimension facilitates clutter spectral estimation for the corresponding clutter and signal range compressed data element S. At respective acts and a filter e.g. a whitening filter in the cross range dimension can then be applied to both range compressed data sets elements R and S. At respective acts and a Fourier transform can be applied in the cross range dimension to both data sets elements R and S to facilitate creating two respective SAR images a first SAR image for the radar clutter data element R and a second SAR image for the radar clutter and signal data element S . At and the first SAR image and the second SAR image can be subsequently power detected. At the first SAR image the clutter only power detected SAR image can then be averaged in the cross range dimension. At a communications signal e.g. a preamble signal data symbols can be detected in the clutter and signal image by setting a CFAR threshold and further by comparing pixel to pixel the power detected clutter and signal SAR image to the power averaged clutter only SAR image. At detection of the communications signal can be indicated e.g. by a notification by forwarding of data comprising the communication signal determining presence of a preamble analysis of data symbols comprising the communication signal etc.

In an embodiment a signal received at an antenna e.g. antenna can comprise of a radar return signal e.g. radar waves or clutter from a point target and further a communication signal e.g. signal simultaneously received on the communications channel. In a further embodiment the radar signal can be linear frequency modulated and the communications signal can be designed to match the RF center frequency and the chirp rate of the transmitted radar signal. In another embodiment the communications transmitter can be located at the same position as the point target. The geometry for a signal model according to the various embodiments presented herein is illustrated in . At the radar e.g. antenna the received signal can be deramped and sampled.

The return signal before and after deramp processing is illustrated in . illustrates a return signal comprising both radar clutter and a communication signal . In an embodiment the communications signal can have an RF bandwidth that is less than the radar clutter return . The reference signal is a replica of the radar transmit signal that is delayed in time to match the time delay of a radar return from a known and fixed geographical reference point.

The received signal is mixed with the complex conjugate of the reference function to perform the deramp processing as shown in . As illustrated in an embodiment the radar clutter return can have a longer time also called spatial frequency extent then the communications signal . The sampled deramped received signal is given as Eqn. 1 where i is the fast time analog digital A D sample index n is the radar pulses index xis the deramped signal return of the transmitted radar pulse and xis the deramped received communications signal.

After mixing the received RF signal with Eqn. 2 the received radar signal at the A D output is expressed as exp Eqn. 3 where

The signal return of the communications signal transmitted from the same locations is exp Eqn. 8 where Ais the signal amplitude and is the phase term of the received communications signal respectively.

The bandwidth of the received signal can be selected such that the data support for the receive signal in spatial frequency can be divided into two separate sets or subapertures in the range dimension. One such subaperture contains signal return from only the point target i.e. radar clutter the other subaperture contains signal return from both the radar clutter return and the communications signal.

In an embodiment the RF bandwidth of the communication signal can be configured to be the radar pulse bandwidth of the radar clutter and thus the communication signal is designed such that the received phase term is 

This subsection can be read in conjunction with element . An initial step in processing the received data is to perform polar to rectangular resampling. The received signal is resampled such that the phase history in the spatial frequency domain is sampled on a rectangular grid. Rcan be approximated as sin cos Eqn. 13 where n is the angle between the reference pointing vector at the center of the aperture and the pointing vector at the npulse as illustrated in . The coordinates x y are the x y coordinates from the reference point to the target point as illustrated in .

In the range or fast time dimension a resampling operation can be performed such that the sample interval Ti is replaced with the sample interval

In the slow time or cross range dimension for each row in fast time i a resampling operation can be performed such that the sample interval

The range bandwidth in spatial frequency for the communications signal Eqn 21 can be approximated as 

Again it is to be noted that the bandwidth of the communication signal can be selected such that the data support for the receive signal can be divided into two separate sets or subapertures in the range dimension. A first subaperture can contain a signal return from only the point target e.g. returned radar signal . A second subaperture can contain a signal return from both the radar clutter return and the communication signal .

This subsection can be read in conjunction with element . Subsequently the phase data can be filtered in range by applying a simple brick wall filter in the Kdomain. In an embodiment the filtering can be accomplished by extracting the two separate subapertures and from the resampled phase history data.

Two criteria are required when filtering or extracting the subapertures and . Firstly as mentioned previously a first subaperture contains signal return from only the clutter return while the second subaperture contains signal return from both the clutter return and the communications signal. Secondly in an embodiment the data support for the clutter return should be the same length in both dimensions for both the first subaperture and the second subaperture . illustrates two regions that can be extracted as subapertures. The first region contains mainly clutter return and has a spatial frequency in the polar grid that extends from

For the clutter only data the signal phase can be filtered such that for 0 and 0 1 Eqn. 24 and for the clutter and signal data the resulting signal phase is for 0 and 1 Eqn. 25

The signal x contains only energy from the clutter data while the signal x contains energy from both the clutter signal and the communication signal .

This subsection can be read in conjunction with element . For each subaperture and a Fourier transform over the Kdimension can be applied to obtain range compression data per the following 

The clutter signal energy is now compressed and contained in the row indexed by y y. In an embodiment owing to the range and cross range dimension of the first subaperture and the second subaperture being selected to be equal the clutter signal for both range compressed data sets can be located in the same row and have the same spatial frequency in the cross range dimension. The communications signal within Xis also in the row indexed by y yand has the same spatial frequency as the clutter return in the cross range dimension. Because the range compressed data X contains only clutter return it can be used to estimate the clutter spectrum in the range compressed data X in the cross range dimension. Using the clutter spectral estimate from X a whitening filter in the cross range dimension can be implemented to filter the clutter energy. Removal of the clutter energy can leave residual signaling whereby the residual signaling can be the communication signal e.g. a preamble signal.

This subsection can be read in conjunction with element . To perform spectral estimation for each row in X y n a linear predictive coding LPC analysis can be applied to determine the set of LPC filter parameters as follows  coef row row Eqn. 32 where MATLAB notation indicates that the MATLAB lpc algorithm is applied to each row of X.

This subsection can be read in conjunction with elements and . The resulting filter coefficients lpc coef row n can be used with a finite impulse response filter to facilitate estimation and removal of the clutter return from the range compressed data Xas follows 

Further a whitening filter can be applied to the clutter only range compressed data . This allows the use of the clutter only data for constant false alarm processing.

This subsection can be read in conjunction with elements and . For each data set a Fourier transform operation can be performed over the cross range dimension as follows Eqn. 35 Eqn. 36

Application of the Fourier transform operation can result in a clutter image Y y x that can comprise of whitened clutter noise and further an image Y y x that can comprise of whitened clutter noise in combination with a compressed communications signal e.g. preamble etc. comprising communication signal . In an ideal situation Y y x appears as a point response located at x y.

Owing to application of the whitening filter to the clutter only data X the whitened clutter power in Y y x and Y y x can be uncorrelated but have equal power. Hence the resulting data set Y y x can be utilized to estimate clutter power in Y y x and implement a pixel by pixel CFAR detector.

This subsection can be read in conjunction with elements and . To implement the CFAR detector the clutter power in Y y x can be averaged as follows 

This subsection can be read in conjunction with elements and . The communication signal e.g. a preamble can be detected by performing a pixel by pixel compression of the two data sets as follows threshold Eqn. 38 The threshold in Eqn. 38 can be chosen to provide the desired false alarm rate for preamble detection.

Finally because the clutter signal has been whitened in Y y x the signal detection implemented in Eqn. 38 can discriminate uniquely between the communication signal and the radar clutter of a normal radar image i.e. an image where the clutter filter has not been applied .

A resampling component can be utilized to transform a received signal from polar form to rectangular form e.g. phase history data per of .

A range filter component can be utilized to filter the transformed received signal to facilitate generation of a first subaperture and a second subaperture per of . As previously mentioned the first subaperture can comprise of only radar clutter e.g. only comprises a portion of radar clutter dataset R and the second subaperture can comprise of radar clutter and a communication signal e.g. comprises a portion of radar clutter and communication signal dataset S . In an embodiment filtering can be performed in the range dimension.

A range compression component can be utilized to apply a Fourier transform to dataset R and further to dataset S to generate range compressed data per of . In an embodiment the Fourier transform can be applied in the range dimension.

A spectral estimation component can be utilized to determine the degree and nature of the radar clutter in dataset R per of . Based upon the determination the degree and nature of the portion of radar clutter in dataset S can be estimated. In an embodiment the spectral estimation determination can be performed in the cross range dimension.

A filter component can be applied to the dataset R signaling and the dataset S signaling per and of . In an embodiment filtering can be a whitening filter. In another embodiment the filtering can be applied in the cross range dimension.

A cross range compression component can be applied to the dataset R and the dataset S where the data can be compressed in the cross range per and of . As part of the cross range compression a Fourier transform can be applied to both the dataset R and the dataset S to facilitate creation of two respective SAR images a first SAR image for the R dataset and a second SAR image for the S dataset.

A power detection component can be utilized to detect respective powers comprising the first SAR image and the second SAR image per and of .

A cross range averaging component can be utilized to facilitate averaging of the clutter only power in the first SAR image per of . In an embodiment averaging can be in the cross range dimension.

A pixel threshold component can be utilized to compare pixel to pixel between the power averaged clutter only first SAR image and the power detected clutter and signal second SAR image per of . Based upon the comparison existence of a communication signal e.g. residual data or signal residue in the second SAR versus the first SAR in the second SAR image can be determined. Accordingly the communication signal can be extracted from the radar clutter comprising the second SAR image. Based on the extraction the communication signal or information pertaining thereto can be identified as communication signal per of . As previously mentioned communication signal can comprise of a preamble signal at least one data symbol etc.

As illustrated in the various components can be operated in accordance with operation of a processor and a data store . In an embodiment processor can facilitate execution of one or more components . Further data store can store one or more received signals one or more extracted communication signals radar clutter information or any other pertinent information data to be stored to facilitate operation of one or more embodiments as presented herein.

Based on the analysis generated by the radar signal analyzer component a communication signal generator component can be configured to receive a communication signal which is to be transmitted e.g. via antenna and further configure the communication signal in accord with the radar signal . For example based upon the frequency of the radar signal the communication signal can be configured to be transmitted such that the communication signal is being transmitted at the same time as reflection of the radar signal . Hence as shown in the communication signal is transmitted in conjunction with a clutter signal e.g. clutter signal .

As illustrated in components and can be operated in accordance with operation of a processor and a data store . In an embodiment processor can facilitate execution of either or both components and . Further data store can store information relating to one or more received radar signals one or more communication signals or any other pertinent information data to be stored to facilitate operation of one or more embodiments as presented herein.

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system to determine existence of a communication signal in a received signal wherein the received signal further comprises radar clutter signaling. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store operating parameters required operating parameters and so forth.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may include executable instructions operating parameters required operating parameters etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

As used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices.

Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. A computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc BD where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection for instance can be a communication medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

