---

title: Weed control from applications of aminopyralid, triclopyr, and an organosilicone surfactant
abstract: Disclosed herein are herbicidal compositions comprising a herbicidal effective amount of (a) aminopyralid, or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof, (b) triclopyr, or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof, and (c) an organosilicone surfactant. Also disclosed herein are methods of controlling undesirable vegetation, which comprise applying to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applying to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation (a) aminopyralid, or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof, (b) triclopyr, or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof, and (c) an organosilicone surfactant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09603363&OS=09603363&RS=09603363
owner: Dow AgroSciences LLC
number: 09603363
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131219
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 740 748 filed Dec. 21 2012 the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to herbicidal compositions comprising a herbicidal effective amount of a aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof b triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and c an organosilicone surfactant. The present disclosure also relates to methods for controlling undesirable vegetation.

Many recurring problems in agriculture involve controlling growth of undesirable vegetation that can for instance inhibit crop growth. To help control undesirable vegetation researchers have produced a variety of chemicals and chemical formulations effective in controlling such unwanted growth. However a continuing need exists for new compositions and methods to control growth of undesirable vegetation particularly over extended periods of time.

Additives can be added to herbicidal compositions to improve efficacy. For example surfactants can be added to post emergent herbicidal compositions to reduce the surface tension of the composition. By reducing the composition s surface tension the spray coverage and penetration of the composition on leaf surfaces can be increased at the same time the evaporation rate of the composition can be reduced. This can have the effect of increasing the amount of herbicide that translocates into a target plant and increasing the herbicidal efficacy of the composition in the short term.

While surfactants can be added to improve the short term efficacy of herbicidal compositions e.g. by increasing plant uptake at the time of herbicide application surfactants are not generally known to improve the efficacy of herbicidal compositions over the long term. The present disclosure is based on the unexpected discovery that a aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof b triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and c an organosilicone surfactant display increased herbicidal over activity over extended periods of time relative to a and b administered in the absence of c .

Accordingly the present disclosure relates to herbicidal compositions comprising a herbicidal effective amount of a aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof b triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and c an organosilicone surfactant. The acid equivalent weight ratio of a to b can be from 1 2 to 1 20 e.g. from 1 7 to 1 10 . In certain embodiments the weight ratio of c in grams active ingredient per hectare g ai ha to a in grams acid equivalent per hectare g ae ha and b in g ae ha in combination can be from 1 1 to 1 8.

In some embodiments the organosilicone surfactant is a modified trisiloxane. Examples of modified trisiloxane surfactants include alkyl modified trisiloxanes alkoxylated trisiloxanes and polyalkyleneoxide modified trisiloxanes.

In certain embodiments the organosilicone surfactant is polyalkyleneoxide modified heptamethyltrisiloxane defined by Formula II

The present disclosure also relates to methods of controlling undesirable vegetation which comprise applying to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applying to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation a herbicidally effective amount of a aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof b triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and c an organosilicone surfactant. In some embodiments a b and c are applied simultaneously. In some embodiments a b and c are applied post emergence of the undesirable vegetation.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to control undesired vegetation in a variety of crop and non crop applications. Exemplary non crop areas include but are not limited to turfgrass pastures grasslands rangelands fallow land rights of way aquatic settings tree and vine wildlife management areas non irrigation ditchbanks and forests. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in industrial vegetation management IVM for example to control undesired vegetation along roadsides power lines pipelines rights of way railways well sites and equipment yards. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can also be used in forestry e.g. for site preparation or for combating undesirable vegetation in plantation forests . In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to control undesirable vegetation in conservation reserve program lands CRP trees vines grasslands and grasses grown for seed. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used on lawns e.g. residential industrial and institutional golf courses parks cemeteries athletic fields and sod farms. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein are used to control undesired vegetation in a crop such as rice. The composition can be effective for an extended period such that the undesirable vegetation is controlled for a period of at least 180 days after application or at least 300 days after application.

The undesirable vegetation can be a broadleaf weed a sedge weed a woody plant a semi woody plant or combination thereof. In some cases the undesirable vegetation is selected from gorse ULEEU blackthorn PRNSN species of ash sp. FRXSS bloody twig dogwood CRWSA species of the genus sp. CRXSS Scotch broom SAOSC common hawthorn CSCMO and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a is applied in an amount of from 5 85 grams acid equivalent per hectare g ae ha e.g. from 25 65 g ae ha . In some embodiments b is applied in an amount of from 10 500 g ae ha e.g. from 250 400 g ae ha . In some embodiments c is applied in an amount of from 50 300 grams active ingredient per hectare g ai ha e.g. from 150 180 g ai ha .

The description below sets forth details of one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and from the claims.

The present disclosure relates to herbicidal compositions comprising a aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof b triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and c an organosilicone surfactant. The present disclosure also relates to methods for controlling undesirable vegetation.

The term herbicide as used herein means an active ingredient that kills controls or otherwise adversely modifies the growth of vegetation. A herbicidally effective amount is an amount of an active ingredient that causes a herbicidal effect i.e. an adversely modifying effect and includes deviations from for instance natural development killing regulation desiccation and retardation. The terms plants and vegetation can include for instance germinant seeds emerging seedlings and established vegetation.

Compositions and methods of the present disclosure can include aminopyralid i.e. 4 amino 3 6 dichloropyridine 2 carboxylic acid or 4 amino 3 6 dichloropicolinic acid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. Aminopyralid is a synthetic auxin herbicide used to control broadleaf weeds in rangelands pastures and industrial settings e.g. roadside power line pipeline right of way railway well site equipment yard or non crop land .

Aminopyralid can be provided in its acid form as shown above or as an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable salts of aminopyralid include but are not limited to sodium salts potassium salts ammonium salts or substituted ammonium salts in particular mono di and tri C C alkylammonium salts such as methyl ammonium dimethylammonium triethylammonium and isopropylammonium mono di and tri hydroxy C C alkylammonium salts such as hydroxyethylammonium di hydroxyethyl ammonium tri hydroxyethyl ammonium hydroxypropylammonium di hydroxypropyl ammonium and tri hydroxypropyl ammonium salts triisopropanolammonium salts olamine salts and diglycolamine salts. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable salts of aminopyralid include aminopyralid potassium and aminopyralid triisoproanolammonium.

In some embodiments aminopyralid is provided as an agriculturally acceptable ester. Suitable esters include but are not limited to C C alkyl esters and C C alkoxy C C alkyl esters such as methyl esters ethyl esters isopropyl butyl hexyl heptyl isoheptyl isooctyl butotyl 2 ethylhexyl and butoxyethyl esters and aryl esters such as benzyl.

Aminopyralid as well as methods of making and using thereof are known in the art. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 297 197 to Fields et al. The herbicidal activity of aminopyralid is described for example in Tomlin C. D. S. Ed. 15ed. BCPC Alton 2009 hereafter The Pesticide Manual Fifteenth Edition 2009 Aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is or has been commercially available for example from Dow AgroSciences LLC under the trademark MILESTONE .

Aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof can be applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount sufficient to induce a herbicidal effect. In some embodiments the aminopyralid or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 5 g ae ha or greater e.g. 7.5 g ae ha or greater 10 g ae ha or greater 12.5 g ae ha or greater 15 g ae ha or greater 17.5 g ae ha or greater 20 g ae ha or greater 25 g ae ha or greater 30 g ae ha or greater 35 g ae ha or greater 40 g ae ha or greater 45 g ae ha or greater 50 g ae ha or greater 55 g ae ha or greater 60 g ae ha or greater 65 g ae ha or greater 70 g ae ha or greater 75 g ae ha or greater or 80 g ae ha or greater . In some embodiments the aminopyralid or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 85 g ae ha or less e.g. 80 g ae ha or less 75 g ae ha or less 70 g ae ha or less 65 g ae ha or less 60 g ae ha or less 55 g ae ha or less 50 g ae ha or less 45 g ae ha or less 40 g ae ha or less 35 g ae ha or less 30 g ae ha or less 25 g ae ha or less 20 g ae ha or less 17.5 g ae ha or less 15 g ae ha or less 12.5 g ae ha or less 10 g ae ha or less or 7.5 g ae ha or less .

Aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof can be applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount ranging from any of the minimum values described above to any of the maximum values described above. In some embodiments the aminopyralid or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of from 5 85 g ae ha e.g. from 10 80 g ae ha from 15 75 g ae ha from 20 70 g ae ha or from 25 65 g ai ha .

Compositions and methods of the present disclosure can include triclopyr i.e. 3 5 6 trichloro 2 pyridinyloxyacetic acid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. Triclopyr is a synthetic auxin herbicide used to control woody plants and broadleaf weeds in turf pastures rangeland non irrigation ditchbanks forests and industrial settings e.g. roadside power line pipeline right of way railway well site equipment yard or non crop land . Triclopyr can also be used as an aquatic herbicide.

Triclopyr can be provided in its acid form as shown above or as an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable salts of triclopyr include but are not limited to sodium salts potassium salts ammonium salts or substituted ammonium salts in particular mono di and tri C C alkylammonium salts such as methyl ammonium dimethylammonium triethylammonium and isopropylammonium mono di and tri hydroxy C C alkylammonium salts such as hydroxyethylammonium di hydroxyethyl ammonium tri hydroxyethyl ammonium hydroxypropylammonium di hydroxypropyl ammonium and tri hydroxypropyl ammonium salts triisopropanolammonium salts olamine salts and diglycolamine salts. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable salts of triclopyr include triclopyr triethylammonium. In some embodiments triclopyr is provided as an agriculturally acceptable ester. Suitable esters include but are not limited to C C alkyl esters and C C alkoxy C C alkyl esters such as methyl esters ethyl esters isopropyl butyl hexyl heptyl isoheptyl isooctyl butotyl 2 ethylhexyl and butoxyethyl esters and aryl esters such as benzyl. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable esters of triclopyr include triclopyr butotyl.

The herbicidal activity of triclopyr is described for example in Fifteenth Edition 2009. Triclopyr or agriculturally acceptable salts or esters thereof are or have been commercially available for example under the trademarks REFUTE by Albaugh Inc. CROSSROAD by Albaugh Inc. TRIBEL by Chimac Agriphar S.A. GARLON by Dow AgroSciences LLC GRANDSTAND by Dow AgroSciences LLC GRANDSTAND R by Dow AgroSciences LLC PATHFINDER by Dow AgroSciences LLC PATHFINDER II by Dow AgroSciences LLC REMEDY by Dow AgroSciences LLC TURFLON by Dow AgroSciences LLC TURFLON ESTER ULTRA by Dow AgroSciences LLC FERLON by Fertiagro Pte. Ltd. RELEGATE by Nufarm Americas Inc. CRYSTAL TRICLOPYR by Dupocsa Protectores Quimicos para el Campo S.A. TRYCERA by Helena Chemical Co. RENOVATE 3 by SePRO Corp. RENOVATE MAX G by SePRO Corp. and RENOVATE OTF by SePRO Corp. .

The triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof can be used in an amount sufficient to induce a herbicidal effect. In some embodiments the triclopyr or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 10 g ae ha or greater e.g. 15 g ae ha or greater 20 g ae ha or greater 25 g ae ha or greater 30 g ae ha or greater 40 g ae ha or greater 50 g ae ha or greater 60 g ae ha or greater 70 g ae ha or greater 75 g ae ha or greater 80 g ae ha or greater 90 g ae ha or greater 100 g ae ha or greater 110 g ae ha or greater 120 g ae ha or greater 125 g ae ha or greater 130 g ae ha or greater 140 g ae ha or greater 150 g ae ha or greater 160 g ae ha or greater 170 g ae ha or greater 175 g ae ha or greater 180 g ae ha or greater 190 g ae ha or greater 200 g ae ha or greater 210 g ae ha or greater 220 g ae ha or greater 225 g ae ha or greater 230 g ae ha or greater 240 g ae ha or greater 250 g ae ha or greater 260 g ae ha or greater 270 g ae ha or greater 275 g ae ha or greater 280 g ae ha or greater 290 g ai ha or greater 300 g ae ha or greater 310 g ae ha or greater 320 g ae ha or greater 325 g ae ha or greater 330 g ae ha or greater 340 g ae ha or greater 350 g ae ha or greater 360 g ae ha or greater 370 g ae ha or greater 375 g ae ha or greater 380 g ae ha or greater 390 g ae ha or greater 400 g ae ha or greater 410 g ae ha or greater 420 g ae ha or greater 425 g ae ha or greater 430 g ae ha or greater 440 g ae ha or greater 450 g ae ha or greater 460 g ae ha or greater 470 g ae ha or greater 475 g ae ha or greater 480 g ae ha or greater or 490 g ae ha or greater . In some embodiments the triclopyr or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 500 g ae ha or less e.g. 490 g ae ha or less 480 g ae ha or less 475 g ae ha or less 470 g ae ha or less 460 g ae ha or less 450 g ae ha or less 440 g ae ha or less 430 g ae ha or less 425 g ae ha or less 420 g ae ha or less 410 g ae ha or less 400 g ae ha or less 390 g ae ha or less 380 g ae ha or less 375 g ae ha or less 370 g ae ha or less 360 g ae ha or less 350 g ae ha or less 340 g ae ha or less 330 g ae ha or less 325 g ae ha or less 320 g ae ha or less 310 g ae ha or less 300 g ae ha or less 290 g ae ha or less 280 g ae ha or less 275 g ae ha or less 270 g ae ha or less 260 g ae ha or less 250 g ae ha or less 240 g ae ha or less 230 g ae ha or less 225 g ae ha or less 220 g ae ha or less 210 g ae ha or less 200 g ae ha or less 190 g ae ha or less 180 g ae ha or less 175 g ae ha or less 170 g ae ha or less 160 g ae ha or less 150 g ae ha or less 140 g ae ha or less 130 g ae ha or less 125 g ae ha or less 120 g ae ha or less 110 g ae ha or less 100 g ae ha or less 90 g ae ha or less 80 g ae ha or less 75 g ae ha or less 70 g ae ha or less 60 g ae ha or less 50 g ae ha or less 40 g ae ha or less 30 g ae ha or less 25 g ae ha or less 20 g ae ha or less or 15 g ae ha or less .

Triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof can be applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount ranging from any of the minimum values described above to any of the maximum values described above. In some embodiments the triclopyr or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of from 10 500 g ae ha e.g. from 25 480 g ae ha from 50 475 g ae ha from 100 450 g ae ha from 150 440 g ae ha from 200 425 g ae ha or from 250 400 g ae ha .

The organosilicone surfactant can be non ionic. In some embodiments the organosilicone surfactant has an HLB Hydrophilic Lipophilic Balance number ranging from 5 to 15 e.g. from 8 to 12 or from 9.5 to 11.5 .

In some embodiments of Formula I x is an integer from 0 to 25 e.g. from 0 to 20 from 0 to 15 from 0 to 10 or from 0 to 5 . In certain embodiments of Formula I x is 0. In certain embodiments of Formula I x is greater than 0.

In some embodiments y is an integer from 1 to 20 e.g. from 1 to 15 from 1 to 10 or from 1 to 5 . In certain embodiments of Formula I y is 1.

In some embodiments of Formula I x is 0 and y is 1 i.e. the organosilicone surfactant is a trisiloxane .

In some embodiments of Formula I R is in every occurrence a C Chydrocarbyl group. In certain embodiments of Formula I R is in every occurrence a methyl group.

In some embodiments of Formula I m is an integer ranging from 2 to 8 and n is an integer ranging from 1 to 20 e.g. from 2 to 15 from 4 to 12 from 5 to 10 or from 6 to 9 .

In some embodiments the organosilicone surfactant is a modified trisiloxane. Examples of modified trisiloxane surfactants include alkyl modified trisiloxanes alkoxylated trisiloxanes and polyalkyleneoxide modified trisiloxanes.

In certain embodiments the organosilicone surfactant is polyalkyleneoxide modified heptamethyltrisiloxane defined by Formula II

In some embodiments of Formula II a is an integer ranging from 2 to 5. In certain embodiments of Formula II a is 3.

In some embodiments of Formula II b is an integer ranging from 1 to 20 e.g. from 2 to 15 from 4 to 12 from 5 to 10 or from 6 to 9 .

In certain embodiments of Formula II a is 3 b is an integer ranging from 5 to 10 and R is hydrogen or methyl.

Polyalkyleneoxide modified trisiloxane surfactants of this type are known in the art and are or have been commercially available for example under the trademarks SILWET L 77 by Momentive Performance Materials Inc. and SILWET 408 by Momentive Performance Materials Inc. .

Alkyl modified trisiloxane surfactants are also known in the art. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 561 099 and 5 658 852 to Murphy et al. Alkyl modified trisiloxanes are or have been commercially available for example under the trademark SILWET 560 by Momentive Performance Materials Inc. .

Alkoxylated trisiloxane surfactants are also known in the art and are or have been commercially available for example under the trademarks SILWET 618 by Momentive Performance Materials Inc. SILWET 625 by Momentive Performance Materials Inc. SILWET 719 by Momentive Performance Materials Inc. and SILWET 806 by Momentive Performance Materials Inc. .

With reference to the formulae above the term hydrocarbyl as used herein refers to a univalent group formed from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen atom e.g. methyl from methane . Examples of hydrocarbyl moieties include for example alkyl alkenyl alkynyl and aryl moieties. Hydrocarbyl moieties also include alkyl alkenyl alkynyl and aryl moieties substituted with other aliphatic or cyclic hydrocarbon groups such as alkylaryl alkenylaryl and alkynylaryl. Hydrocarbyl moieties can be optionally substituted with between 1 and 4 hydroxy groups. In some embodiments hydrocarbyl moieties comprise from 1 to 20 carbon atoms e.g. from 1 to 12 carbon atoms from 1 to 8 carbon atoms from 1 to 7 carbon atoms from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or from 1 to 4 carbon atoms . In some embodiments hydrocarbyl moieties comprise alkyl groups comprising from 1 to 8 carbon atoms e.g. from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or from 1 to 4 carbon atoms . In some embodiments the hydrocarbyl moieties comprise aryl groups comprising from 5 to 7 carbon atoms.

With reference to the formulae above the term acyl as used herein refers to a moiety formed by removal of the hydroxy group from the group COOH i.e. a carboxylic acid . For example acyl moieties can be defined by RC O wherein R is hydrocarbyl RO RRN or RS Ris hydrocarbyl and Ris independently for each occurrence hydrogen or hydrocarbyl.

The organosilicone surfactant can be used in an amount sufficient to enhance the herbicidal efficacy of a and b over extended periods of time relative to the efficacy of a and b administered in the absence of c . In some embodiments the organosilicone surfactant is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 50 g ai ha or greater e.g. 60 g ai ha or greater 70 g ai ha or greater 80 g ai ha or greater 90 g ai ha or greater 100 g ai ha or greater 110 g ai ha or greater 120 g ai ha or greater 130 g ai ha or greater 140 g ai ha or greater 150 g ai ha or greater 160 g ai ha or greater 170 g ai ha or greater 180 g ai ha or greater 190 g ai ha or greater 200 g ai ha or greater 210 g ai ha or greater 220 g ai ha or greater 230 g ai ha or greater 240 g ai ha or greater 250 g ai ha or greater 260 g ai ha or greater 270 g ai ha or greater 280 g ai ha or greater or 290 g ai ha or greater . In some embodiments the organosilicone surfactant is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 300 g ai ha or less e.g. 290 g ai ha or less 280 g ai ha or less 270 g ai ha or less 260 g ai ha or less 250 g ai ha or less 240 g ai ha or less 230 g ai ha or less 220 g ai ha or less 210 g ai ha or less 200 g ai ha or less 190 g ai ha or less 180 g ai ha or less 170 g ai ha or less 160 g ai ha or less 150 g ai ha or less 140 g ai ha or less 130 g ai ha or less 120 g ai ha or less 110 g ai ha or less 100 g ai ha or less 90 g ai ha or less 80 g ai ha or less 70 g ai ha or less or 60 g ai ha or less .

The organosilicone surfactant can be applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount ranging from any of the minimum values described above to any of the maximum values described above. In some embodiments the organosilicone surfactant is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of from 50 300 g ai ha e.g. from 60 280 g ai ha from 80 260 g ai ha from 100 250 g ai ha from 110 230 g ai ha from 130 200 g ai ha or from 150 180 g ai ha . In some embodiments the organosilicone surfactant can be applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation at a rate ranging from 0.025 to 0.15 by volume.

The a aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof b triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and c an organosilicone surfactant are mixed together or applied in combination in a herbicidally effective amount.

In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be mixed together or applied in combination in an effective amount to control undesired vegetation over an extended period of time e.g. for a period of at least 180 days after application . In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can based on the individual components be used at lower application rates to achieve a herbicidal effect comparable to the effect produced by the individual components at normal application rates. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein provide an accelerated action on undesired vegetation i.e. they effect damaging of undesired vegetation more quickly compared with application of the individual herbicides .

In some embodiments the acid equivalent weight ratio of a aminopyralid or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof to b triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is at least 1 20 e.g. at least 1 19 at least 1 18 at least 1 17 at least 1 16 at least 1 15 at least 1 14 at least 1 13 at least 1 12 at least 1 11 at least 1 10 at least 1 9 at least 1 8 at least 1 7 at least 1 6 at least 1 5 at least 1 4 or at least 1 3 . In some embodiments the acid equivalent weight ratio of a to b is 1 2 or less e.g. 1 3 or less 1 4 or less 1 5 or less 1 6 or less 1 7 or less 1 8 or less 1 9 or less 1 10 or less 1 11 or less 1 12 or less 1 13 or less 1 14 or less 1 15 or less 1 16 or less 1 17 or less 1 18 or less or 1 19 or less .

The acid equivalent weight ratio of a aminopyralid or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof to b triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof can range from any of the minimum ratios described above to any of the maximum ratios described above. In some embodiments the acid equivalent weight ratio of a to b is from 1 20 to 1 2 e.g. from 1 18 to 1 4 from 1 15 to 1 5 from 1 12 to 1 6 or from 1 10 to 1 7 .

In some embodiments the weight ratio of c in g ai ha to a in g ae ha and b in g ae ha in combination i.e. c a b is at least 1 8 e.g. at least 1 7 at least 1 6 at least 1 5 at least 1 4 at least 1 3 or at least 1 2 . In some embodiments the weight ratio of c in g ai ha to a in g ae ha and b in g ae ha in combination is 1 1 or less e.g. 1 2 or less 1 3 or less 1 4 or less 1 5 or less 1 6 or less or 1 7 or less .

The weight ratio of c in g ai ha to a in g ae ha and b in g ae ha in combination can range from any of the minimum ratios described above to any of the maximum ratios described above. In some embodiments the weight ratio of c in g ai ha to a in g ae ha and b in g ae ha in combination is from 1 8 to 1 1 e.g. from 1 6 to 1 1.5 or from 1 5 to 1 2 .

The present disclosure also relates to formulations of the compositions and methods disclosed herein. In some embodiments the formulation can be in the form of a single package formulation including a aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof b triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and c an organosilicone surfactant.

In some embodiments the formulation can be in the form of a single package formulation including a b and c and further including at least one additive.

The formulation can also be in the form of a two package or three package formulation. For example the formulation can be in the form of a two package formulation wherein the first package contains a mixture of two components selected from a b and c and optionally at least one additive while the second package contains the third component selected from a b and c not included in the first package and optionally at least one additive. The formulation can be in the form of a three package formulation wherein the first package contains a and optionally at least one additive the second package contains b and optionally at least one additive and the third package contains c and optionally at least one additive.

In some embodiments of the two package or three package formulation the formulations containing a b c and optionally one or more additives are mixed before application and then applied simultaneously. In some embodiments the mixing is performed as a tank mix i.e. the formulations are mixed immediately before or upon dilution with water . In some embodiments the one or more of the formulations are not mixed but are applied sequentially in succession for example immediately or within 1 hour within 2 hours within 4 hours within 8 hours within 16 hours within 24 hours within 2 days or within 3 days of each other.

In some embodiments the formulation of a b and c is present in suspended emulsified or dissolved form. Exemplary formulations include but are not limited to aqueous solutions suspensions also highly concentrated aqueous oily or other suspensions or dispersions aqueous emulsions aqueous microemulsions aqueous suspo emulsions oil dispersions and pastes.

In some embodiments a aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and or b triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and or c the organosilicone surfactant is an aqueous solution that can be diluted before use. In some embodiments a and or b and or c is provided as a high strength formulation such as a concentrate. In some embodiments the concentrate is stable and retains potency during storage and shipping. In some embodiments the concentrate is a clear homogeneous liquid that is stable at temperatures of 54 C. or greater. In some embodiments the concentrate does not exhibit any precipitation of solids at temperatures of 10 C. or higher. In some embodiments the concentrate does not exhibit separation precipitation or crystallization of any components at low temperatures. For example the concentrate remains a clear solution at temperatures below 0 C. e.g. below 5 C. below 10 C. below 15 C. . In some embodiments the concentrate exhibits a viscosity of less than 50 centipoise 50 megapascals even at temperatures as low as 5 C.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can also be mixed with or applied with an additive. In some embodiments the additive can be diluted in water or can be concentrated. In some embodiments the additive is added sequentially. In some embodiments the additive is added simultaneously. In some embodiments the additive is premixed with the aminopyralid or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments the additive is premixed with the triclopyr or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof. In some embodiments the additive is premixed with the organosilicone surfactant. In some embodiments the additive is premixed with the aminopyralid or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and or the triclopyr or agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and or the organosilicone surfactant.

In some embodiments the additive is an additional pesticide. Exemplary additional pesticides include but are not limited to 2 4 D acetochlor aclonifen amicarbazone 4 aminopicolinic acid based herbicides such as halauxifen halauxifen methyl and others described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 314 849 and 7 432 227 to Balko et al. amidosulfuron aminocyclopyrachlor aminotriazole ammonium thiocyanate asulam atrazine beflubutamid benazolin bensulfuron methyl bentazone bifenox bromacil bromoxynil butachlor butafenacil butralin butroxydim carbetamide carfentrazone carfentrazone ethyl chlormequat clopyralid chlorsulfuron chlortoluron cinidon ethyl clethodim clodinafop propargyl clomazone cyanazine cyclosulfamuron cycloxydim cyhalofop butyl dicamba dichlobenil dichlorprop P diclofop methyl diclosulam diflufenican diflufenzopyr dimefuron dimethachlor diquat diuron s ethyl N N dipropylcarbamothioate EPTC ethoxysulfuron fenoxaprop fenoxaprop ethyl fenoxaprop ethyl isoxidifen ethyl fenoxaprop P ethyl fenoxasulfone flazasulfuron florasulam fluazifop fluazifop P butyl flucarbazone flucarbazone sodium flucetosulfuron LGC 42153 flufenacet flumetsulam flumioxazin flupyrsulfuron fluorochloridone fluoroxypyr fluoroxypyr meptyl flurtamone glufosinate glufosinate ammonium glyphosate haloxyfop methyl haloxyfop R hexazinone imazamethabenz imazamox imazapic imazapyr imazaquin imazethapyr imazosulfuron indanofan indaziflam iodosulfuron iodosulfuron ethyl sodium ioxynil isoproturon isoxaben isoxaflutole lactofen linuron MCPA MCPB mecoprop P mesosulfuron mesosulfuron ethyl sodium metazochlor metosulam metribuzin metsulfuron metsulfuron methyl MSMA napropamide napropamide M norfurazon orthosulfamuron oryzalin oxadiargyl oxadiazon oxyfluorfen paraquat pendimethalin penoxsulam picloram picolinafen pinoxaden primisulfuron profluazol propaquizafop propoxycarbazone propyzamide prosulfocarb prosulfuron pyraflufen ethyl pyrasulfotole pyribenzoxim LGC 40863 pyroxsulam pyroxasulfone quinmerac quizalofop ethyl D quizalofop P ethyl quizalofop P tefuryl rimsulfuron sethoxydim simazine sulfentrazone sulfometuron sulfosate sulfosulfuron tebuthiuron tepraloxidim terbacil terbuthylazine terbutryn thiazopyr thifensulfuron thifensulfuron methyl topramezone tralkoxydim triasulfuron tribenuron tribenuron methyl triafamone triclopyr and trifluralin and agriculturally acceptable salts esters and mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the additional pesticide includes clopyralid fluoroxypyr metsulfuron methyl 2 4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid 2 4 D dicamba dichlorprop P halauxifen halauxifen methyl 2 methyl 4 chlorophenoxyacetic acid MCPA penoxsulam picloram propanil pyraflufen ethyl sulfentrazone and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is provided in a premixed formulation with an additional pesticide. In some embodiments the aminopyralid or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is premixed with and or co packaged with clopyralid fluoroxypyr metsulfuron methyl 2 4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid 2 4 D or combinations thereof. Exemplary premixes and co packs of aminopyralid or agriculturally acceptable salts or esters thereof and an additive that are or have been commercially available include but are not limited to SENDERO a premix incorporating clopyralid by Dow AgroSciences LLC CLEANWAVE a premix incorporating fluoroxypyr by Dow AgroSciences LLC CHAPARRAL a premix incorporating metsulfuron methyl by Dow AgroSciences LLC CLEARVIEW a premix incorporating metsulfuron methyl by Dow AgroSciences LLC FOREFRONT R P a co pack incorporating 2 4 D by Dow AgroSciences LLC GRAZONNEXT a co pack incorporating 2 4 D by Dow AgroSciences LLC PASTURALL a co pack incorporating 2 4 D by Dow AgroSciences LLC and RESTORE a co pack incorporating 2 4 D by Dow AgroSciences LLC .

In some embodiments the triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is provided in a premixed formulation with an additional pesticide. In some embodiments the triclopyr or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof is premixed with clopyralid 2 4 D dicamba dichlorprop P fluoroxypyr metsulfuron methyl 2 methyl 4 chlorophenoxyacetic acid MCPA penoxsulam picloram propanil pyraflufen ethyl sulfentrazone and combinations thereof. Exemplary premixes of triclopyr or agriculturally acceptable salts or esters thereof and an additive that are or have been commercially available include but are not limited to BRAZEN a premix incorporating clopyralid by Nufarm Americas Inc. CONFRONT a premix incorporating clopyralid by Dow AgroSciences LLC REDEEM a premix incorporating clopyralid by Dow AgroSciences LLC AQUASWEEP a premix incorporating 2 4 D by Nufarm Americas Inc. CANDOR a premix incorporating 2 4 D by Nufarm Americas Inc. CHASER a premix incorporating 2 4 D by Loveland Products Inc. CROSSBOW L a premix incorporating 2 4 D by Loveland Products Inc. 4 SPEED XT a premix incorporating 2 4 D dicamba and pyraflufen ethyl by Nufarm Americas Inc. FOUNDATION a premix incorporating 2 4 D dicamba and sulfentrazone by Wilbur Ellis Co. T ZONE a premix incorporating 2 4 D dicamba and sulfentrazone by PBI Gordon Corp. COOL POWER a premix incorporating dicamba and MCPA by Nufarm Americas Inc. HORSEPOWER a premix incorporating dicamba and MCPA by Nufarm Americas Inc. PROGENY a premix incorporating dicamba and MCPA by Nufarm Americas Inc. VENGEANCE PLUS a premix incorporating dichlorprop P and MCPA by Wilbur Ellis Co. WIL POWER a premix incorporating dichlorprop P and MCPA by Wilbur Ellis Co. PASTUREGARD a premix incorporating fluoroxypyr by Dow AgroSciences LLC TAILSPIN a premix incorporating fluoroxypyr by Loveland Products Inc. and United AgriProducts ULTIMATE a premix incorporating metsulfuron methyl by Zelam Ltd. GRASP XTRA a premix incorporating penoxsulam by Dow AgroSciences LLC VICTORY GOLD a premix incorporating picloram by Zelam Ltd. ATALAR a premix incorporating propanil by RiceCo LLC CRYSTALPYR a premix incorporating propanil by Dupocsa Protectores Quimicos para el Campo S.A. and RICEPYR a premix incorporating propanil by RiceCo LLC .

In some embodiments the additive includes an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable adjuvants include but are not limited to antifreeze agents antifoam agents compatibilizing agents sequestering agents neutralizing agents and buffers corrosion inhibitors colorants odorants penetration aids wetting agents spreading agents dispersing agents thickening agents freeze point depressants antimicrobial agents crop oil safeners adhesives for instance for use in seed formulations surfactants protective colloids emulsifiers tackifiers and mixtures thereof. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable adjuvants include but are not limited to crop oil concentrate mineral oil 85 emulsifiers 15 nonylphenol ethoxylate benzylcocoalkyldimethyl quaternary ammonium salt blend of petroleum hydrocarbon alkyl esters organic acid and anionic surfactant C Calkylpolyglycoside phosphate alcohol ethoxylate natural primary alcohol C C ethoxylate di sec butylphenol EO PO block copolymer polysiloxane methyl cap nonylphenol ethoxylate urea ammonium nitrate emulsified methylated seed oil tridecyl alcohol synthetic ethoxylate 8 EO tallow amine ethoxylate 15 EO and PEG 400 dioleate 99.

In some embodiments the additive is a safener that is an organic compound leading to better crop plant compatibility when applied with a herbicide. In some embodiments the safener itself is herbicidally active. In some embodiments the safener acts as an antidote or antagonist in the crop plants and can reduce or prevent damage to the crop plants. Exemplary safeners include but are not limited to AD 67 MON 4660 benoxacor benthiocarb brassinolide cloquintocet mexyl cyometrinil cyprosulfamide daimuron dichlormid dicyclonon dietholate dimepiperate disulfoton fenchlorazole fenchlorazole ethyl fenclorim flurazole fluxofenim furilazole harpin proteins isoxadifen ethyl jiecaowan jiecaoxi mefenpyr mefenpyr diethyl mephenate naphthalic anhydride 2 2 5 trimethyl 3 dichloroacetyl 1 3 oxazolidine 4 dichloroacetyl 1 oxa 4 azaspiro 4.5 decane oxabetrinil R29148 and N phenyl sulfonylbenzoic acid amides as well as agriculturally acceptable salts thereof and provided they have a carboxyl group their agriculturally acceptable derivatives. In some embodiments the safener can be cloquintocet or an ester or salt thereof such as cloquintocet mexyl .

Exemplary additional surfactants e.g. wetting agents tackifiers dispersants emulsifiers include but are not limited to the alkali metal salts alkaline earth metal salts and ammonium salts of aromatic sulfonic acids for example lignosulfonic acids phenolsulfonic acids naphthalenesulfonic acids and dibutylnaphthalenesulfonic acid and of fatty acids alkyl and alkylarylsulfonates alkyl sulfates lauryl ether sulfates and fatty alcohol sulfates and salts of sulfated hexa hepta and octadecanols and also of fatty alcohol glycol ethers condensates of sulfonated naphthalene and its derivatives with formaldehyde condensates of naphthalene or of the naphthalene sulfonic acids with phenol and formaldehyde polyoxyethylene octylphenol ether ethoxylated isooctyl octyl or nonylphenol alkylphenyl or tributylphenyl polyglycol ether alkyl aryl polyether alcohols isotridecyl alcohol fatty alcohol ethylene oxide condensates ethoxylated castor oil polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers or polyoxypropylene alkyl ethers lauryl alcohol polyglycol ether acetate sorbitol esters lignosulfite waste liquors and proteins denatured proteins polysaccharides e.g. methylcellulose hydrophobically modified starches polyvinyl alcohol polycarboxylates polyalkoxylates polyvinyl amine polyethyleneimine polyvinylpyrrolidone and copolymers thereof.

Exemplary thickeners include but are not limited to polysaccharides such as xanthan gum and organic and inorganic sheet minerals and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary antifoam agents include but are not limited to silicone emulsions long chain alcohols fatty acids salts of fatty acids organofluorine compounds and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary antimicrobial agents include but are not limited to bactericides based on dichlorophen and benzyl alcohol hemiformal and isothiazolinone derivates such as alkylisothiazolinones and benzisothiazolinones and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary antifreeze agents include but are not limited to ethylene glycol propylene glycol urea glycerol and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary colorants include but are not limited to the dyes known under the names Rhodamine B pigment blue 15 4 pigment blue 15 3 pigment blue 15 2 pigment blue 15 1 pigment blue 80 pigment yellow 1 pigment yellow 13 pigment red 112 pigment red 48 2 pigment red 48 1 pigment red 57 1 pigment red 53 1 pigment orange 43 pigment orange 34 pigment orange 5 pigment green 36 pigment green 7 pigment white 6 pigment brown 25 basic violet 10 basic violet 49 acid red 51 acid red 52 acid red 14 acid blue 9 acid yellow 23 basic red 10 basic red 108 and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary adhesives include but are not limited to polyvinylpyrrolidone polyvinyl acetate polyvinyl alcohol tylose and mixtures thereof.

In some embodiments the additive includes a carrier. In some embodiments the additive includes a liquid carrier. In some embodiments the additive includes an organic or inorganic carrier. Exemplary liquid carriers include but are not limited to petroleum fractions or hydrocarbons such as mineral oil aromatic solvents paraffinic oils and the like or less vegetable oils such as soybean oil rapeseed oil olive oil castor oil sunflower seed oil coconut oil corn oil cottonseed oil linseed oil palm oil peanut oil safflower oil sesame oil tung oil and the like or less esters of the above vegetable oils or less esters of monoalcohols or dihydric trihydric or other lower polyalcohols 4 6 hydroxy containing such as 2 ethyl hexyl stearate n butyl oleate isopropyl myristate propylene glycol dioleate di octyl succinate di butyl adipate di octyl phthalate and the like or less esters of mono di and polycarboxylic acids and the like toluene xylene petroleum naphtha crop oil acetone methyl ethyl ketone cyclohexanone trichloroethylene perchloroethylene ethyl acetate amyl acetate butyl acetate propylene glycol monomethyl ether and diethylene glycol monomethyl ether methyl alcohol ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol amyl alcohol ethylene glycol propylene glycol glycerine N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone N N dimethyl alkylamides dimethyl sulfoxide liquid fertilizers and the like and water as well as mixtures thereof.

In some embodiments emulsions pastes or oil dispersions can be prepared by homogenizing a b and c in water optionally by means of wetting agent tackifier dispersant or emulsifier. In some embodiments concentrates suitable for dilution with water are prepared comprising a b c and optionally a wetting agent a tackifier and or a dispersant or emulsifier.

In some embodiments the concentrations of a b and c in the formulations can be varied. In some embodiments the formulations comprise from 1 to 95 e.g. from 5 to 95 from 10 to 80 from 20 to 70 from 30 to 50 by total weight of a b and c . In some embodiments a b and c independently can be employed in a purity of from 90 to 100 e.g. from 95 to 100 according to nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectrometry. In some embodiments the concentrations of a b c and additional pesticides in the formulations can be varied. In some embodiments the formulations comprise from 1 to 95 e.g. from 5 to 95 from 10 to 80 from 20 to 70 from 30 to 50 by total weight of a b c and additional pesticides. In some embodiments a b c and additional pesticides independently can be employed in a purity of from 90 to 100 e.g. from 95 to 100 according to NMR spectrometry.

The compositions disclosed herein can be applied in any known technique for applying herbicides. Exemplary application techniques include but are not limited to spraying atomizing or direct application into water in water . The method of application can vary depending on the intended purpose. In some embodiments the method of application can be chosen to ensure the finest possible distribution of the compositions disclosed herein.

The compositions disclosed herein can be applied pre emergence before the emergence of undesirable vegetation or post emergence i.e. during and or after emergence of the undesirable vegetation . In certain cases the compositions are applied post emergence. When the compositions are used in crops the compositions can be applied after seeding and before or after the emergence of the crop plants. In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein show good crop tolerance even when the crop has already emerged and can be applied during or after the emergence of the crop plants. In some embodiments when the compositions are used in crops the compositions can be applied before seeding of the crop plants.

In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein are applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation by spraying e.g. foliar spraying . In some embodiments the spraying techniques use for example water as carrier and spray liquor rates of from 0.5 liters per hectare L ha to 2000 L ha e.g. from 0.5 L ha to 50 L ha from 50 L ha to 1000 L ha or from 100 to 500 L ha . In some embodiments wherein the compositions disclosed herein are less well tolerated by certain crop plants the compositions can be applied with the aid of the spray apparatus in such a way that they come into little contact if any with the leaves of the sensitive crop plants while reaching the leaves of undesirable vegetation that grows underneath or the bare soil e.g. post directed or lay by .

In some embodiments herbicidal activity is exhibited by the compounds of the synergistic mixture when they are applied directly to the plant or to the locus of the plant at any stage of growth or before planting or emergence. The effect observed can depend upon the type of undesirable vegetation to be controlled the stage of growth of the undesirable vegetation the application parameters of dilution and spray drop size the environmental conditions at the time of use the specific compound employed the specific adjuvants and carriers employed the soil type and the like as well as the amount of chemical applied. In some embodiments these and other factors can be adjusted to promote non selective or selective herbicidal action.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to control undesired vegetation in a variety of crop and non crop applications.

In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used for controlling undesired vegetation in rice e.g. in flooded seeded rice in flooded transplanted rice or in rice seedbeds prior to planting rice seeds or rice transplants . In these cases the composition can be applied for example to the vegetation as an in water application to a flooded rice field.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in crop plants that are resistant to for instance herbicides pathogens and or insects. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in crop plants that are resistant to one or more herbicides because of genetic engineering or breeding. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in crop plants that are resistant to one or more pathogens such as plant pathogenous fungi owing to genetic engineering or breeding. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in crop plants that are resistant to attack by insects owing to genetic engineering or breeding.

In some embodiments the crop is rice that is resistant to synthetic auxins or rice that owing to introduction of the gene for or Bt toxin by genetic modification is resistant to attack by certain insects. In some embodiments the compositions and methods described herein also can be used in conjunction with glyphosate glufosinate dicamba phenoxy auxins pyridyloxy auxins aryloxyphenoxypropionates acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors imidazolinones acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors triazines and bromoxynil to control vegetation in rice that is tolerant to glyphosate glufosinate dicamba phenoxy auxins pyridyloxy auxins aryloxyphenoxypropionates acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors imidazolinones acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors triazines bromoxynil or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the undesirable vegetation is controlled in glyphosate glufosinate dicamba phenoxy auxins pyridyloxy auxins aryloxyphenoxypropionates acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors imidazolinones acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors triazines and bromoxynil tolerant rice possessing multiple or stacked traits conferring tolerance to multiple chemistries and or multiple modes of action. The combination of a b and c can be used in combination with herbicides that are selective for the crop e.g. rice being treated and which complement the spectrum of weeds controlled by these compositions at the application rate employed.

Exemplary non crop areas include but are not limited to turfgrass pastures grasslands rangelands fallow land rights of way aquatic settings tree and vine wildlife management areas non irrigation ditchbanks and forests. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in industrial vegetation management IVM for example to control undesired vegetation along roadsides power lines pipelines rights of way railways well sites and equipment yards. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can also be used in forestry e.g. for site preparation or for combating undesirable vegetation in plantation forests . In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to control undesirable vegetation in conservation reserve program lands CRP trees vines grasslands and grasses grown for seed. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used on lawns e.g. residential industrial and institutional golf courses parks cemeteries athletic fields and sod farms.

The herbicidal compositions prepared disclosed herein are effective against a variety of types of undesirable vegetation. In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein can be used for controlling broadleaf weeds sedge weeds woody plants semi woody plants and combinations thereof. In some cases the undesirable vegetation is selected from gorse ULEEU blackthorn PRNSN also referred to as sloe species of ash sp. FRXSS bloody twig dogwood CRWSA species of the genus sp. CRXSS Scotch broom SAOSC common hawthorn CSCMO and combinations thereof.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to control undesired vegetation over an extended period of time. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to control undesired vegetation e.g. to provide at least 70 control to provide at least 75 control to provide at least 80 control to provide at least 85 control to provide at least 90 control or to provide at least 95 control for a period of at least 180 days after application e.g. for a period of at least 210 days for a period of at least 240 days for a period of at least 270 days for a period of at least 300 days for a period of at least 330 days for a period of at least 365 days or longer .

By way of non limiting illustration examples of certain embodiments of the present disclosure are given below.

Field trials were conducted with applications made in the area of naturally occurring woody and semi woody plant populations. Treatments were applied post emergence to the woody and semi woody plants. All treatments were applied using a randomized complete block trial design with four replications per treatment.

Treatments consisted of aminopyralid and triclopyr applied alone or in combination with polyalkyleneoxide modified heptamethyltrisiloxane SILWET L 77 Aminopyralid and triclopyr were provided as premixed compositions GF 1883 and GF 1365 see Table 1 .

GF 1883 and or GF 1365 alone or in combination with SILWET L 77 were applied to the target plants at a spray volume of either 800 or 1 000 L ha and at varying weed stages see Table 2 . Compositions were applied with a lance directed at the targeted plant at a height of approximately 1.0 to 1.5 meters m from the soil.

The average percent control of several species of targeted plants indicated by Bayer codes at 1 year after treatment are provided in Table 3 below. The treated plots and control plots were visually rated blind at one year after application. Ratings were based on a scale of 0 100 as discussed above wherein 0 indicates complete growth of the undesired vegetation and 100 indicates complete prevention of the undesired vegetation. The results are included in Table 3 below.

The application of SILWET L 77 in conjunction with GF 1883 increased the average percent weed control at 1 year after treatment by approximately 30 against ULEEU two trials conducted approximately 47 against PRNSN two trials conducted approximately 35 against FRXSS three trials conducted approximately 18 against CRXSS one trial conducted and approximately 6 against SAOSC three trials conducted relative to treatment with GF 1883 alone. The application of SILWET L 77 in conjunction with GF 1365 increased the average percent weed control at 1 year after treatment of the GF 1365 by approximately 19 against FRXSS three trials conducted relative to treatment with GF 1365 alone.

The efficacy of compositions containing aminopyralid triclopyr and a polyalkyleneoxide modified heptamethyltrisiloxane surfactant was compared to the efficacy of compositions containing aminopyralid triclopyr and a non organosilicone surfactant. Non organosilicone surfactants tested included a soy derived non ionic penetrating surfactant a mixture of phosphatidylcholine methylacetic acid and an alkyl polyoxyethylene ether which is or was commercially available under the trademark LI 700 by Loveland Products Inc. a surfactant including self emulsifiable esters of rapeseed oil which is or was commercially available under the trademark ACRIROB B by Bayer CropScience and a non ionic surfactant including a mixture of alcohol ethoxylates and natural fatty acids which is or was commercially available under the trademark ACTIVATOR 90 by Loveland Products Inc. .

Field trials were conducted with applications made in the area of naturally occurring woody and semi woody plant populations. Treatments were applied post emergence to the woody and semi woody plants. All treatments were applied using a randomized complete block trial design with four replications per treatment.

Treatments consisted of aminopyralid and triclopyr applied alone or in combination with a surfactant SILWET L 77 LI 700 ACRIROB B or ACTIVATOR 90 . Aminopyralid and triclopyr were provided as premixed compositions GF 1883 and GF 1365 see Table 1 above . Compositions were applied to the target plants at a spray volume of either 800 or 1 000 L ha and at varying weed stages see Table 2 . Compositions were applied with a lance directed at the targeted plant at a height of approximately 1.0 to 1.5 m from the soil.

The average percent control of several species of targeted plants indicated by Bayer codes at 1 year after treatment are provided in Table 4 below. The treated plots and control plots were visually rated blind at one year after application. Ratings were based on a scale of 0 100 as discussed above wherein 0 indicates complete growth of the undesired vegetation and 100 indicates complete prevention of the undesired vegetation. The results are included in Table 4 below.

The application of SILWET L 77 in conjunction with GF 1883 increased the average percent weed control at 1 year after treatment by approximately 60 against PRNSN one trial conducted relative to treatment with GF 1883 alone. In contrast application of LI 700 in conjunction with GF 1883 only increased the average percent weed control at 1 year after treatment by approximately 14 against PRNSN one trial conducted relative to treatment with GF 1883 alone. Application of ACTIROB B in conjunction with GF 1883 only increased the average percent weed control at 1 year after treatment of the GF 1883 by approximately 50 relative to treatment with GF 1883 alone.

Similarly the application of SILWET L 77 in conjunction with GF 1883 increased the average percent weed control at 1 year after treatment by approximately 40 against FRXSS two trials conducted relative to treatment with GF 1883 alone. The application of SILWET L 77 in conjunction with GF 1365 increased the average percent weed control at 1 year after treatment by approximately 30 against FRXSS two trials conducted relative to treatment with GF 1365 alone. In contrast application of ACTIVATOR 90 in conjunction with GF 1883 or GF 1365 resulted in no significant or only a slight increase in the average percent weed control at 1 year after treatment against FRXSS two trials conducted relative to treatment with GF 1883 or GF 1365 alone.

The compositions and methods of the appended claims are not limited in scope by the specific compositions and methods described herein which are intended as illustrations of a few aspects of the claims and any compositions and methods that are functionally equivalent are intended to fall within the scope of the claims. Various modifications of the compositions and methods in addition to those shown and described herein are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Further while only certain representative compositions and method steps disclosed herein are specifically described other combinations of the compositions and method steps also are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims even if not specifically recited. Thus a combination of steps elements components or constituents may be explicitly mentioned herein or less however other combinations of steps elements components and constituents are included even though not explicitly stated. The term comprising and variations thereof as used herein is used synonymously with the term including and variations thereof and are open non limiting terms. Although the terms comprising and including have been used herein to describe various embodiments the terms consisting essentially of and consisting of can be used in place of comprising and including to provide for more specific embodiments of the invention and are also disclosed. Other than in the examples or where otherwise noted all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood at the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims to be construed in light of the number of significant digits and ordinary rounding approaches.

