---

title: Network operating system client architecture for mobile user equipment
abstract: A network operating system agent can operate to facilitate communications to a network device and a managing server of self-organizing network devices to exchange contexts between an application managed by a user equipment device and the network device. Relationships between self-organizing devices and applications of a user equipment device can be extended so that the network devices are context aware of the application settings. In response to detecting the user equipment device communicating via the network devices, a set of user equipment device parameters and a set of application settings of the application can be communicated to the network devices. The application settings can be modified according to the a set of radio network performance settings of the self-organizing network devices with the user equipment device based on the set of user equipment device parameters and the set of application settings of the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565576&OS=09565576&RS=09565576
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09565576
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131009
---
The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and in particular to network operating system client architecture for mobile user equipment.

The use of mobile devices and the resulting mobile traffic continues growing at a very fast pace and the trend shows no signs of stopping. To meet the mobile traffic growth and improve the end user experience mobile service providers are actively looking for mechanisms to improve network efficiency system capacity and end user experience by cost effectively leveraging all radio network technologies including cellular and Wi Fi technologies. The routing of network traffic to a Wi Fi radio and to a cellular radio for example can affect the user experience. For example if the network traffic is routed to a network that is not appropriate for that network traffic it can result in loss of the communication e.g. dropped calls poor services and other negative impacts to the user experience.

To ensure customer satisfaction wireless service providers aim to deliver a high quality service at any location to facilitate reliable and efficient mobile communications. Consumers can access a growing number of networks using a mobile device. These networks include for example 3G networks 4G networks long term evolution networks and Wi Fi networks. These networks allow consumers to communicate voice text multimedia and other data to and from other network entities such as servers and other mobile devices.

Aspects of the subject disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings that illustrate different example embodiments. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. However the subject disclosure can embody many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein.

The management of current relationships between the applications managed by user equipment UE devices e.g. mobile devices and the different networks that the UEs travel through is not complete. For example mobile applications are network blind and networks are application blind such that the mobile application settings are not controlled or modified by the networking operations and vice versa. A need therefore exits to apply an innovative Self Organizing Network SON approach between the applications managed by UEs and the self organizing network devices through a Network Operating System Agent NOSA or otherwise indicated as a NOSA kernel a NOSA manger and the like which can operate to establish and manage relationships between the application and network behaviors.

In one embodiment the application and network relationships can extend beyond just the radio access network and Quality of Service QOS and can comprise mechanisms for self organized approaches to diversify data delivery self organizing control considerations based on UE parameters. For example current general purpose operating systems do not operate to couple network level self organizing and performance management functions between the self organizing network devices and the UE applications functionally managed by the UE which can also operate together with an external storage e.g. a cloud storage storing the application. The NOSA however operates to provide and separate management of network bandwidth load balancing self organizing functions traffic monitoring probes traffic time shifting offloading preloading functions and network policy to the applications and UEs managing the applications from the networks.

The relationships between the applications and managing UEs with the network devices can include any interactions for operating over a network managed by the network devices such as a Wi Fi network device a macro cell network device a micro cell network device a Femto cell network device etc. and other corresponding networks of network devices. The relationships managed by the NOSA can be operational functions between the self organizing network devices and the applications of the UE which selectively operate based on UE parameters. For example UE parameters can comprise UE sensed data or data detected with respect to the UE functions. For example some UE parameters can comprise accelerometer data battery power data speed data directional data and network observed signaling data load data and congestion data or any other UE sensed data.

In another embodiment the self organizing network devices can include an innovative integrated storage blade that is communicatively coupled to a Radio Access Network RAN device and a mobile packet core as part of SON devices that can function to perform real time traffic profiling analytics packet reprioritization data time shifting and network store and forward functions. The self organizing network devices can provide and separate management of network bandwidth load balancing self organizing functions traffic monitoring probes traffic time shifting offloading preloading and network policy to the applications and users.

To meet mobile traffic growth one or more of the disclosed aspects provides a network architecture that enables selection of the best available radio technology from all available radio technologies including cellular and Wi Fi technologies for user traffic delivery according to the needs of applications managed on UEs. The network selection can be a function of radio network conditions radio network performance settings user subscription profile application settings device mobility state e.g. speed and pattern application settings on a UE device and so on to improve network efficiency provide the requested data delivery conditions for the application s demands. The network devices can provide data delivery conditions or options to the network devices via the relationships managed by the NOSA with the applications and according to various triggers communicated by the applications because of such relationships. Further the selection can provide a consistent user experience across multiple types of user equipment operating system and original equipment manufacturer OEM manufactures and platforms. One or more of the disclosed aspects can also provide Application Program Interfaces APIs that allow for the development of Access Network Discovery and Selection Function ANDSF carrier clients that can operate in conjunction with the self organizing devices through the NOSA.

In another embodiment the UE device e.g. mobile device and or the application s that the UE manages can make determinations related to which radio network to use what the QOS will be when to use that radio network and under what conditions or triggers to route or have routed the user traffic based on one or more attributes or conditions. Decisions can be based on one or more of the following an ANDSF policy e.g. 3GPP ANDSF capabilities 4GPP capabilities Wi Fi network capabilities user equipment intelligence and the other network capabilities cellular network congestion condition and parameters Wi Fi network congestion condition and or mobile device information including battery usage mobile device relative movement with respect to a Wi Fi access point e.g. speed vibration patterns mobile device relative movement with respect to a cellular access point other UE parameters discussed herein and so on. In another embodiment a UE can interact with a kernel that operates as the NOSA that resides on the UE or on as an external device operationally coupled to the UE which can instruct network devices on routing the user traffic to the selected radio network device e.g. Wi Fi Femto cell Macro cell Micro cell etc. or for certain radio network performance parameters or network conditions on a per application basis. The instructions can be combined with a user preference and the traffic routing functions can be performed e.g. binding user application flow to a radio network device based in part on the combination of user preferences and network considerations according to the self organizing devices and corresponding network conditions or radio network performance settings. Consequently the UE device can comprise the client network operating system or NOSA that can enable SON extension wherein the UE device provides appropriate context to the SON device or servers and policy engines.

As the mobile industry moves towards Giga speed applications the next generation mobile packet cores could have the ability to automate the traffic flow management that meets application demands on the networks. The mobile packet core can be a device that operates the management of the radio access network and network devices operating the radio access network such as for providing sessions or information exchanges authentication packet forwarding and like networking operations. The network devices herein can be a gateway support node device a cellular management entity device or a packet data gateway device for example as well as other network devices functionally serving network communications for UEs and combinations of these devices communicatively coupled to one another.

The wireless communications environment includes one or more broadcast servers e.g. cellular servers and one or more Wi Fi access points deployed within the wireless communications environment and servicing one or more UE devices . Each wireless communications network e.g. broadcast servers and Wi Fi access points comprises one or more network devices e.g. a set of network devices that operate in conjunction with one another in order to process network traffic for the one or more UE devices or . For example the broadcast servers can comprise a set of network devices that are cellular enabled network devices which could provide different network speeds e.g. 2G 3G 4G etc. . In another example the Wi Fi access points can include a set of network devices that are Wi Fi enabled devices.

The communications environment can include one or more management servers that are communicatively coupled to the network devices such as the broadcast servers as a control node for one or more networks. The management servers can operatively control UE device tracking and paging procedures including retransmissions. The management servers can control for example the bearer activation deactivation process and choosing a serving gateway for the UE devices or at the initial attach and at the time of an intra network handover e.g. Wi Fi to 3G 3G to 3G or the like . The management servers can authenticate UEs by interacting with the other devices communicatively coupled thereto and or sets of data servers such as a home subscriber server and the like. The management servers can operate in conjunction with one or more mobile packet core components having a processors and memory that can operate to generate and allocate temporary identities to UEs and terminates Non Access Stratum NAS signaling or other signaling protocol layer. The NAS can be used to manage the establishment of communication sessions e.g. between UEs and for maintaining continuous communications with the user equipment as it moves. The management servers can also manage signaling to the Access Stratum for carrying information over the wireless portion of the network and security key management operations e.g. authentication verification authorization operations with UE application data and UE device functions. In particular the network devices can operate together with the UEs to provide and separate management of network bandwidth load balancing self organizing functions traffic monitoring probes traffic time shifting offloading preloading and network policy to the applications and UEs managing the applications.

As illustrated each of the one or more Wi Fi access points can have a corresponding service area . In addition each of the one or more broadcast servers can have a corresponding service area . However the wireless communications environment is not limited to this implementation and various other architectures can also be employed. For example the self organizing network devices can deploy any number of Wi Fi access points and respective service areas within the wireless communications environment .

A UE device can contain some or all of the functionality of a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile wireless terminal device mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal wireless communication device wireless communication apparatus user agent user device or UE device. A mobile device or UE can be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a smart phone a feature phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop a handheld communication device a handheld computing device a netbook a tablet a satellite radio a data card a wireless modem card and or another processing device for communicating over a wireless system. In addition the UE devices can include functionality as more fully described herein such as one or more applications such as application software or bundled software and hardware processors for a particular set of useful tasks beyond the running of the computer itself. Examples can include accounting software enterprise software graphics software media players office suites and the like. An application for example can apply the power of particular a computing platform or system software to a particular purpose.

In one aspect cellular broadcast servers and Wi Fi access points can monitor and communicate with one or more applications on the UE and their surrounding radio conditions e.g. by employing respective measurement components . For example each of the cellular broadcast servers and Wi Fi access points can determine network traffic load on its respective network by performing a network diagnostic procedure. As an example during a network listen procedure cellular broadcast servers and Wi Fi access points can scan their radio environment to determine network performance statistics. Various parameters associated with cellular broadcast servers and Wi Fi access points can be detected during the network diagnostic procedure such as but not limited to frequency bands scrambling codes common channel pilot power bandwidth across respective networks universal mobile telecommunications system terrestrial radio access receive signal strength indicator as well as application settings from the UE.

In an example scenario networks can service UE devices and through one of the cellular broadcast servers or Wi Fi access points . As a UE device travels within the wireless communications environment the respective UE device can move in and out of the coverage area of the associated serving network. For example as a user is sending receiving communications through their respective UE device the user might be walking riding in a car riding on a train moving around a densely populated urban area e.g. a large city wherein the movement might cause the mobile device to be moved among various wireless communications networks. In such cases it is beneficial to route the network traffic e.g. handoff from a serving network to a target network in order to continue the communication e.g. avoid dropped calls . The routing for example can be dependent on one or more applications of a particular UE. The applications can have application settings that can dictate a set of network protocols and further comprise multiple different sets of network protocols based on one or more triggers or events that initiate a corresponding set of network protocols. The managing servers and the core components in conjunction with the other network devices of the SON can operate network functions according to the application settings and the set of triggers corresponding to a particular set of network protocols. The applications of the UE can have different sets of application settings which can have priorities or a prioritization scheme based on one or more event triggers for operation of the application.

For example as a driver enters a Wi Fi area data sharing or data transfer can transfer over to a Wi Fi network according to the application settings for an application that is operating on the UE. A data transfer can occur based on an event or trigger as discussed above so that an application that requires a function with greater speed for data transfer could switch to a 4G network instead for a specified time period until the function is triggered to pause by a set trigger or event specified in the application settings. The data transfer could be stopped and made to continue automatically once a response from a particular party UE network device or the like is received. The response or vote could operate as a trigger designated by the application settings. Multiple devices e.g. UEs or other devices can then share the information via the SON automatically subsequent to the SON devices performing an aggregation of the data. The data shared for example can be dependent on a different trigger and a different set of application settings or network protocols which can be designated automatically by the application or the user manually via the application.

Depending on location UE devices can have the option to connect to any number of networks based on the application settings for example. In one scenario one of the cellular broadcast servers can service all the UE devices which can cause excessive load on the respective cellular broadcast server and cause UE devices to have a potentially negative user experience. The application settings could have a request for a data transfer or collection of data from one or more other UE devices. The application settings could indicate to the self organizing devices of the network environment a desire for data speeds that are on one network but not another. The settings could establish certain time periods for a set of application settings to take effect such as certain data speeds for the set time period. The application settings can also comprise set triggers or events to switch networks and further continue with data transfer stop data transfer or establish data communication under different protocol priorities based on UE parameters such as battery speed direction and network observed signaling load congestions and the like.

In another embodiment UE devices can connect to any available network based on real time or near real time network condition statistics and an intelligent network selection policy with a Network Operating System agent or kernel. In one example scenario UE device for example can determine Wi Fi access point or Wi Fi access point offer a higher quality of experience and UE device can connect to the selected Wi Fi access point based in part on a network selection policy or data diversity policy included with specifications of the application settings. Further to this example UE device might determine cellular broadcast server or cellular broadcast server offer a higher quality of experience and UE device can connect to the selected cellular broadcast server based in part on the network selection policy designated by the application settings. According to another aspect UE device could split its communication traffic flows and use a selected Wi Fi access point for a set of communication traffic flows and a selected cellular broadcast server for another set of communication traffic flows based on the application settings provided to the network.

In some situations when an option is available where a particular UE device can be serviced by either a cellular broadcast server or a Wi Fi access point the Wi Fi access point can be selected automatically based on the application functioning requirements and as specified by the application settings of an application on the UE. For example the UE device might have user preferences established within a particular set of application settings to occur at one event trigger e.g. data sharing delivery UE sensed data etc. which indicates that when a Wi Fi network is available network traffic of the UE device should be routed to the Wi Fi network. Another set of application settings associated with the same application could occur for another or different event trigger. Such application settings could vary between applications on a UE and for various trigger events that could occur. For example certain application settings could establish a network speed or type of network because in some cases there is no associated cost to the user of the UE device when a Wi Fi network is utilized as compared to usage of a cellular network. Thus the network traffic of the UE device could be automatically routed to the Wi Fi network regardless of the load on the Wi Fi network and or other considerations which could result in a negative user experience e.g. dropped communications poor communications and so on .

However according to some aspects discussed herein rather than automatically connecting to a Wi Fi access point other considerations can be utilized to route the network traffic of the UE device to the Wi Fi network or to determine that the network traffic should remain on the cellular network and or move to a different cellular network or Wi Fi network. For example instead of moving to the Wi Fi network automatically when the Wi Fi network is available a comparison is made between the Wi Fi network and a cellular network. If the Wi Fi network is more congested than the cellular network the user traffic of the UE device can be routed to the cellular network. However if it is determined that the Wi Fi network is not as congested as the cellular network or both networks have about the same level of congestion the user traffic of the UE device can be routed to the Wi Fi network.

According to various aspects discussed herein a UE device can continuously periodically or based on other temporal conditions receive data indicative of network statistics e.g. network policy traffic load or congestion on the network capability of the network and so on according to the application requirements at the time. As network performance changes a UE device can determine that at least a portion of its respective network traffic should be routed to a different network. The determination can be made based on real time or near real time network statistics.

In accordance with one implementation a kernel serving as the NOSA can be implemented with the UE or external to a UE to facilitate communicate of application settings for an application managed by the UE to the network devices. The network devices can then initiate policies and based decisions such as handover network conditions and load conditions e.g. network congestion based on the application settings. The network devices of the SON for example can take a self organizing approach to diverse data delivery self organizing control considerations based on UE observed accelerometers battery power speed direction and network observed signaling load and congestions. A portion of these parameters can be communicated as part of the application settings in order to set corresponding limits or triggers for defining the particular needs of the application providing the status of the UE and for prioritizing data delivery options between the UE and the SON.

In accordance with an implementation a UE device can be configured to perform dynamic intelligent network selection per service provided based on a combination of an access network discovery and selection function policy network conditions and intelligence associated with the UE device. For example the UE device can autonomously determine under what conditions to route network traffic and to which network e.g. Wi Fi radio or cellular radio the network traffic should be routed on a per application basis e.g. by splitting traffic flows . The decision can be made in such a manner that the decision has a positive impact on the user experience.

The access network discovery and selection function policy can be received from a network server that can be configured to push e.g. broadcast the information to one or more UE devices based on the application settings communicated or received by the network devices. The network selection policy can include logic that can instruct the UE device to select a network based at least in part on network statistics which can include network conditions and load conditions e.g. network congestion or policies based on the UE parameters such as UE observed accelerometers battery power speed direction and network observed signaling load and congestions. According to some implementations one or more network collection agents can monitor multiple networks and can periodically continuously or repeatedly push communicate updated network statistic information to the UE device. Such periodic and or continuous updates can enable real time or near real time knowledge of the network conditions by the UE device and could further be implemented in response to one or more event triggers selected by or assigned to the application of the UE device.

Further according to the various aspects described herein the network selection can be based in part on an operator policy driven intelligent network selection and traffic steering capability based on the network conditions and the UE device intelligence that offers optimal or as close to optimal as possible and consistent user experience across all UE operating system OS original equipment manufacturer OEM platforms and manufactures.

A network can include a plurality of elements that host logic for performing tasks on the network. The logic can be hosted on servers according to an aspect. In packet based wide area networks servers can be placed at several logical points on the network. Servers may further be in communication with databases and can enable communication devices to access the contents of a database. Billing servers and application servers are examples of such servers. A server can include several network elements including other servers and can be logically situated anywhere on a service provider s network such as the back end of a cellular network and managed by the packet core components . A server hosts or is in communication with a database hosting an account for a user of a mobile device. The user account includes several attributes for a particular user including a unique identifier of the mobile device s owned by the user relationships with other users application usage location personal settings business rules bank accounts and other information.

System can comprise various components that can integrate with one or more UE device as an internal component externally as network device or as a virtual component. The system for example can comprise an evaluation manager that can be configured to compare one or more parameters associated with two or more wireless networks and further evaluate UE device parameters that comprise UE sensed data e.g. accelerometer data battery power data speed data direction data network observed signaling data representing a signaling of the set of self organizing network devices load data representing a load of the set of self organizing network devices and congestion data representing a congestion of the set of self organizing network devices .

According to one implementation parameters associated with a first network can be compared to parameters associated with a second network and or a parameters associated with subsequent e.g. third fourth networks. The network parameters can further comprise the UE parameters that can be utilized for optimizing the application settings selecting a set of application settings the network device to UE device relations and providing network delivery options for data based on the parameters detected on the network and the UE. For example the one or more parameters associated with the communications networks can include congestion conditions network parameter conditions or application conditions e.g. event triggers such as predefined time periods location designations network performance the type of network or other triggers . According to an aspect the one or more parameters can include network load information. In accordance with another aspect the one or more parameters can include bandwidth utilization of the network e.g. 3G 4G long term evolution and so on . Other parameters can include peak usage times available bandwidth of a network a number of requests received by a network resource as well as other metrics or parameters which can be specified certain events or functions for data delivery via one or more different sets of application settings of the UE device managed application.

In an implementation a first wireless network can include network devices that are cellular enabled device e.g. a cellular network and a second wireless network can include network devices that are Wi Fi enabled devices e.g. a Wi Fi network . Parameters related to the cellular networks can include cellular network congestion condition and parameters received through cell broadcast or a system information block s . Dynamic cellular conditions include load information signal strength thresholds and or subscriber profile based offset to signal strength threshold percentages. Parameters related to the Wi Fi networks can include Wi Fi network access point conditions such as BSSI load condition RSSI and WAN metrics and or performance measurements over the Wi Fi network.

The evaluation manager component can also be configured to compare the one or more network parameters associated with the two or more wireless networks with one or more parameters associated with the user equipment device. The one or more parameters of the user equipment device can include usage information e.g. applications being executed e.g. running on the user equipment device . The parameters can also include a movement parameter of the user equipment device. The movement parameter can relate to whether the user equipment device is stationary or moving and if moving a speed at which the device is being moved and or a direction to which the device is being moved. The speed and or direction of the device can be analyzed with respect to a location of a cellular network and or a Wi Fi network according to an implementation and provided to the self organizing network devices which can enable certain data delivery options according to the UE parameters and the application settings as a set of radio network performance settings. For example if the user equipment device is being moved toward a network that network might be favored over a network that the device is being moved away from or not directly headed toward. A trigger for example could be designated in the application settings as well such as switching to a Wi Fi network device coverage when within a certain distance of the coverage area stopping data delivery or continuing data delivery upon entering the coverage area. In an example speed and or movement of the device can be determined based on a vibration pattern of the device. Other parameters can include user preferences and or settings associated with the selection of a network for routing of network traffic. Further parameters can include a battery usage and or remaining battery capability e.g. battery life .

Also included in system is a selection manager component that can be configured to determine which radio technology and associated set of network devices should be chosen such that at least a portion of the network traffic of the user equipment also referred to as user traffic is routed to the selected network e.g. by a routing manager component . For example the comparison performed by the evaluation manager component can produce various possible results. For example a first possible result can be that at least a portion of the network traffic of the user equipment device should be routed to a first set of network devices e.g. a first set of target devices which are associated with a first radio technology a first set of radio network performance settings . Further a second possible result can be that the portion of the network traffic or another portion of network traffic of the user equipment device should be routed to a second set of network devices e.g. a second set of target devices which are associated with a second radio technology e.g. a second set of radio network performance settings .

The system can further include a selection manager component that operates to make determinations for policy considerations. The determination performed by selection manager component can comply with a network selection policy received from a network device that currently provides a service to the user equipment device e.g. a set of source devices . In an implementation complying with the network selection policy can include observing discovery information and selection policies of the serving network e.g. set of serving devices . The discovery information can relate to one or more traffic routing rules established by the serving network. According to some implementations instructions related to the network selection policy e.g. how to route the user traffic can be combined with the application settings set by the application or the user in order for the selection manager component to make the network determination.

The application settings can include trigger events that are designated by the application a user of the UE managing the application or selected from a set of triggers provided by the network device which could vary depending upon location or other UE parameters or UE sensed data such as bandwidth requirements location speed direction of travel etc. as discussed above. For example a cellular network 3G 4G etc. or a Wi Fi network can be chosen as a result of the cellular network condition when combined with the Wi Fi condition for the determination based on the application requirements or set of application settings specifying the requirements. The application settings can enable the application to perform one or more operations by establishing context aware relationships between the UE applications and set of self organizing network devices. For example if the cellular network is loaded e.g. high congestion and the Wi Fi network is not congested under that condition the Wi Fi network can be chosen. However if the cellular network is not congested and also the Wi Fi network is not congested the cellular network might be chosen or not chosen depending upon one or more applications settings or UE parameters. Thus the decision is made in part based on a comparison of both the networks and the context awareness of the application of the UE and UE.

The routing manager component can be configured to route one or more portions of the network traffic of the user equipment device to the set of network devices chosen by the selection manager component . For example the routing manager component can be configured to change functionality of the user equipment device from a cellular connectivity function to a Wi Fi connectivity function. In another example the routing manager component can be configured to change the functionality of the user equipment device from a Wi Fi connectivity function to a cellular connectivity function. The routing manager component is configured to perform the appropriate signaling between a source network and the target network to enable seamless handoff or routing of the user network traffic.

According to an implementation the routing manager component is configured to route a first set of network traffic of the user equipment device e.g. a first set of traffic flows to a first network and to route a second set of network traffic of the user equipment device e.g. a second set of traffic flows to a second network. For example a cellular network might be congested and therefore some of the traffic of the user equipment device can be kept on or routed to a LTE network for example. At the same time a media application or video sharing application might be executing on the user equipment device and this set of traffic can be routed to or kept on a Wi Fi network. In such a manner different sets of traffic flows of the user equipment device can be split wherein some of the traffic flows are routed to a cellular network while other traffic flows are routed to a Wi Fi network. Such splitting of the traffic flows can be determined based in part on the network policy such as a network selection policy for example or the application settings such as a price structure performance requirements or some other set of triggers. The triggers can be selected set or modified by the UE or the network and can be communication to the network devices or SON from a selected set of application settings from the UE application to the network devices via the NOSA or operating kernel of the NOSA at the UE external or virtually through the network.

The NOSA kernel can be configured to operate as a manager in a low level abstraction layer for input output requests from the applications being managed by the UE to the self organizing network devices. The NOSA kernel can be operatively connected to the UE operating system and is specialized for network operations and communications to the SON in order to provide network aware relationships for application functions. The NOSA kernel for example translates the application context e.g. processes interruptible tasks threads of the application to the network context processes interruptible tasks threads of the network to account for them in processing data delivery with the managing server and mobile packet core components of the set of self organizing devices. The NOSA can operate with the self organizing devices to communicate and determine data delivery operations such as time sharing load balancing resource allocation time shifting of packet flows cache operations data packet segmentation and reassembly and caching functions. The UE device can comprise the client network operating system or NOSA kernel that can enable SON extension wherein the UE device provides appropriate context to the SON device or servers and policy engines with application policies or settings on the UE device.

The system further comprises an application services and application programming interface manager API . The application services and API manager operates to manage underlying flow state information information to manage dynamic pricing or billing and integrate proper interfaces to manage micro shift data delivery. The application services and API manager can further provide virtual service portals for new Quality of Experience QOE dependent business models enable analytic and knowledge dashboards to applications on the UE device and create personalized flow models and policy based services for users businesses and internal optimization tools. The application services and API manager can communicate data with the NOSA kernel to monitor cycle times fallouts end to end flow rates and quality of experience to make determinations of application settings to communicate to the SON devices for example. These components enable optimum quality of experience to UE devices and applications managed or controlled by the UE devices with network devices. The device component operatively communicate advantageously to eliminate manual configuration of equipment at the time of deployment right through to dynamically optimizing application and radio network performance during operation which increases alternative service offers for large data deliveries in wireless networks.

The operation system OS and device agnostic abstraction component is configured to operate as a manager for the operation system and the UE device context tasks threads process etc. and the network context. For example network routing processes can be a set of context that comprises a different number of communication layers each of which are responsible for handling some part of the end to end communication. Each layer for example can be tasked with a specific job or set of processing tasks receives input from the OS the device or the network and produces output in a predetermined fashion. The operation system OS and device agnostic abstraction component enables the communication of the context for the OS the UE and the network among the self organizing network devices and different layers of the NOSA kernel .

The application and NOSA network component is configured to communicate a suite or set of tools for the applications operating on the UE for communicating e.g. displaying in a display or interfacing with applications various application settings and enabling sets of application settings for performance parameters functions and the like with triggers or events. For example one set of application settings can indicate a power level threshold a congestion level a time shift a priority level for a network bandwidth offloading triggers packet prioritization network store and forwarding functions and the like settings. Additionally another set of application settings can be stored or configured to have different levels of each of these settings different thresholds or different triggers to instantiate the application settings with the self organizing network devices. Consequently the application and the network relationships can be context aware of one another and interact with communications that take into account the application settings and network conditions. Thus the application settings can be communicated to the network devices and the UE device to be configured modified or set based on the current conditions of the networks and the application functions associated with the settings.

The network services component is configured to communicate network delivery options that can comprise current network conditions such as available networks to the application processes and managing UE device based on the current UE parameters and network conditions. For example UE parameters e.g. accelerometer data battery power data speed data directional data can be considered as trigger events for modifying or determining the optimal application settings by which the application not only operates on but indicates to the network that it is either capable of operation with or will operate with. In cases in which a trigger is not met the application could halt or stop certain functions wait or continue processing with a different setting. The network conditions taken into account as the network delivery options can include congestion network observed signal among devices for services conducted or provided by the devices load data congestion data. In response to the triggers that are met a set of application settings can be communicated and implemented by a radio access network device a managing server a mobile packet core or other network device to perform the application set real time traffic profiling analytic packet reprioritization data time shifting and network store forward functions etc.

In addition the network services component can operate to communicate event triggers than a network device of the network environment could provide. These network provided triggers could be selected and stored in the application settings for a UE device to select from or set as the condition by with a network is chosen or by which some other application setting or parameter of the UE is made to operate in conjunction with network. For example a San Fran network could trigger operation with a 3G network a different Wi Fi network a micro cell network a Macro cell network a priority scheme a data delivery scheme etc. based on any event such as a geographical location from one building floor to another one restaurant or another one application function or another as initiated by the UE device and the like event triggers.

The control manager application and context aware component is configured to modify a set of application settings of the user equipment device by changing particular settings network type bandwidth speed event triggers etc. and a set of radio network performance settings of the set of self organizing network devices with the user equipment device based on the set of user equipment device parameters. This can be done automatically or manually based on network conditions large congestion lack of or not of storage functioning time shifting loading and congestion policies specific to a network device or not specific etc. . The control manager application and context aware component can select a network delivery option as a preferred setting which can include settings available for the network to provide. The application as a result of a defined trigger can tag sets of application settings by which the control manager application and context aware component implements the delivery options to meet or exceed the particular application settings tagged for the event trigger. In addition where a delivery option data delivery option is not able to meet or exceed an application setting the control manager application and context aware component can make a determination whether the application functioning would except a different data delivery option set a different trigger e.g. a wait period or the like or halt the application processes. The UE device functions can also be taken into consideration in which application settings of other applications running could be affect depending on the hardware limitations and make similar determinations.

The control manager application and context aware component can operate receive one or more inputs to communicate for network and application setting determinations. For example an input can be a service provider access network discovery and selection function policy which can be received through an S14 interface for example or other network communication interface. The access network discovery and selection function policy can include according to an implementation the access network discovery selection function capabilities and enhancements for example such as network conditions and user equipment device intelligence.

In addition the control manager application and context aware component can operate to facilitate determinations of data delivery options available and application settings for electronic Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Services MBMS or other similar services that enable a point to multipoint interface specification for existing and upcoming cellular networks for delivery specifications for efficient delivery of broadcast and multicast services both within a cell as well as within the core network. For broadcast transmission across multiple cells the eMBMS or other like service specification can define transmission via single frequency network configurations for example.

The control manager application and context aware component can further integrate or factor in determinations according to the importance of managing monitoring as well as actively managing networked applications for Quality of Experience QOE which can include various metrics such as availability Mean Time to Repair MTTR and Mean Time Between Failures MTBF for networking applications managed by the UE devices. Transportation tracking and context operations can determine the tracking conditions based on the UE parameters discussed above. Video streaming and Voice over Long Term Evolution LTE networks or Internet Protocol IP can be monitored and selected in a determination for data delivery options. In addition security options and applications can be considered with third party control manager applications or other NOSA kernel applications and auto certification operations of application communications and processes such as communication certification and security. The control manager application and context aware component can further determine context for flow policies and application frameworks for applications as part of determining application settings such as prioritization congestion and bandwidth considerations for selecting a data delivery option. As discussed above the selection manager component of utilizes the access network discovery and selection function policy to perform selection of a radio network e.g. a radio technology or provide for such as an application setting together with the other functioning components discussed above.

The control manager services and API component can be configured to monitor and process event synchronizations in which more than one event can be synchronized across application settings delivery options for radio network device settings of the self organizing devices to prevent conflict. As discussed above event triggers can be determined provided as selection for setting modifying or canceling within application settings. The triggers can be provided by the SON devices for selection manually set and modified for particular application settings associated with different applications or subsets of application settings that can be tagged with certain events.

The control manager services and API component can further implement video codecs video share processes radio options Broadcast multicast pricing algorithms according to the network data delivery options or radio network settings for such options roaming manager activities caching structures such as Network Access Storage in support of cross layer designs and applications and speech services for example. The control manager services and API component can further operate to extend carrier services from various network carriers with the above mention services for example.

The manager extension control component can be configured to support core management extensions between applications and the network devices such as for different implementations and applications. For example mobile health can be supported via the network and UEs and be bridged on the network for receiving high priority or less priority within the application settings for data delivery with health services and information as well as with security and emergency functions. Different communication protocols can also be implemented with certain applications with the network devices of the SON with the control manager extension component such as Zigbee Bluetooth Vehicular communications etc. Other networks and their communication protocols can be considered based on an application setting that can be broadband wide area networks such as cellular networks local area networks wireless local area networks e.g. Wi Fi and personal area networks such as near field communication networks. Communication across a network can be packet based however radio and frequency amplitude modulation networks can enable communication between communication devices using appropriate analog digital analog converters and other elements. The manager extension control component can further operate to perform QOE monitoring adaptive network services and database process controlling such as with Lite DB or other database engines in communication with the network via the NOSA kernel based on application communicated request or settings.

The core control manager kernel can operate to provide microkernel interfaces among the OS and UE device multi core processing operations for specific applications and high speed data delivery fast booting power state monitoring and controlling based on UE parameters and application needs instant channel access activations for emergency or other needs. Event notification can be controlled for indicating events to the user and further along to the network devices as the UE interprets events as occurring. The core control kernel manager can further interpret and communicate a resource manager framework engine. For example cross layer functions can be implemented for manually pairing between two devices in timing radio network relationship states resources and network discoveries. QOS can be guaranteed or made uniform at both ends of the devices or multiple Oss such as operation with appropriate thresholds for VOLTE for example or other applications and their specific sets of settings. Reactions or responses can be set in the application settings for network devices for degradation of voice with reserved bandwidths that can be utilized at a per cell level for example.

The wireless system on a chip adaptation component can be configured to implement various network integrations with the NOSA kernel to be able to provided network and application relationships across different networks such as in different countries or different communication entities or proprietary entities.

As provided herein the disclosed aspects enable dynamic intelligent network selection per service provider policy based on a combination of an access network discovery and selection function network conditions UE device intelligence and application settings of one or more applications managed by one or more UEs.

Referring now to illustrated is an example system that establishes connecting relationships between self organizing network devices and applications of UE devices detected by the SON devices. Included in system is an intelligent selection function IS function that preforms different operating functions to determine network selection decisions as to which radio access network when under what conditions network traffic of the user equipment device should be routed what radio network settings should be established and application settings for optimizing application functions which are based on different types of input. In order to perform these functions a connection manager aggregates data from different network devices and the UE device. The connection manager operates as the NOSA or NOSA kernel discussed above for example. Examples of information received at the UE device include radio network settings such as network congestion conditions network bandwidth load balancing data self organizing functions traffic monitoring probe data from traffic monitoring probes traffic time shifting offloading preloading and network policy data to the applications of the UE device and the UE device. Examples of information generated by the UE device include usage information movement data accelerometer data battery power speed data direction data and network observed signaling.

For example the connection manager can operate to receive a service provider access network discovery and selection function ANDSF policy which can be received by an ANDSF policy ANDSF function . The service provider ANDSF can be received through an S14 interface for example. The ANDSF policy can include according to an implementation the 4GPP ANDSF capabilities and enhancements such as network conditions load probe data congestion bandwidth etc. as well as other network conditions 3GPP Wi Fi etc. from the SON devices. The selection manager component of utilizes the ANDSF policy to perform selection of a radio network device for a network to connection with or application settings to be received via a network delivery option. The selection manger component can receive UE device intelligence to make determinations for selecting sets of application settings and radio network settings such as a particular type of network bandwidth storing speed etc.

The connection manager can communicate cellular network congestion conditions UE parameter data by a cell broadcast CB system information block SIB function illustrated as CB SIB function . The CB SIB function can be a cellular network intelligent function on the user equipment device that receives and or extracts various dynamic cellular network condition s and or parameter s from the cellular network. A cellular network condition for example can relate to load information which can be in the format of a load flag and received from one or more monitoring probes communicated by the UE device via the connection manager . For example the load flag can be color coded e.g. red yellow green and so forth to indicate the amount of network traffic e.g. load on that particular cellular network. In another example another manner of indicating the load information on the cellular network can be utilized e.g. a pie chart a line chart based on a number of lights illuminated and so on .

Another cellular network condition can relate to signal strength thresholds. For example a signal strength threshold is a reference signal received power RSRP over the reference signal subcarriers in a long term evolution LTE implementation. In another example a signal strength threshold can be a reference received signal code power RSCP in a universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS implementation.

A network profile can relate to a subscriber profile based on an offset to signal strength thresholds or a profile of application settings comprising different subsets of application settings ranked according to priority to a corresponding application on the UE. For example a UE device associated with a first signal strength threshold can be ranked differently than another UE device associated with a second signal strength threshold based on different application settings for an operating application respectively. In an implementation the various thresholds can be associated with different colors. For example the first signal strength threshold and a second signal strength threshold of different users can be coded for different priorities as well as different application settings tagged for implementations according to different event triggers or different priorities depending on the radio network settings or conditions of a network profile.

Another cellular network condition or profile can be a load condition or a percentage of bandwidth that can be used to move portions or sets of the user equipment devices between cellular networks and Wi Fi networks. For example a threshold level of a number or percentage of users that can be adequately serviced by a particular network could be utilized. According to this implementation when the threshold level or threshold percentage is reached or almost reached no new user equipment devices might be routed to that network until the amount of user equipment devices serviced by the network is below the threshold level. In an example the percentage can be indicative of a congestion percentage e.g. based on total available bandwidth used bandwidth or capable bandwidth verses used bandwidth .

Another input can be a Wi Fi network congestion condition and one or more Wi Fi network parameters illustrated as a Wi Fi function . The Wi Fi function can relate to a Wi Fi network condition function on the user equipment device that receives and or extract Wi Fi access point conditions. One condition can be a basic service set BSS load condition. Another condition can be a received signal strength indicator RSSI . A further condition can be wireless access node WAN metrics via HotSpot2.0. Another condition can be a performance measurement over the Wi Fi network which can include round trip time RTT delay jitter packet loss and so on.

The CB SIB function and the Wi Fi function represent network information . Such network information can be utilized by the evaluation manager component of to perform network comparisons based on the application settings and UE parameters of the UE device. For example the network information is utilized with the information obtained related to the user equipment device and the application settings to perform the comparison and thereby communicate data delivery options among the network device resources of the SON devices for application functions. In cases in which the application settings correspond to a particular set of application settings and are not able to receive the resources for an application function the application function can be halted for a timed period or the application settings can be modified to another set of application settings for the application function. In addition or alternatively other application functions could be selected or provided as options in a dashboard or interface control to the UE device.

A further input for determining application and network settings for the UE applications over various network devices among SON networks can be user equipment device intelligence. Such information can include applications executing on the user equipment device. For example some applications might be better served by a cellular radio e.g. cellular network while other applications might execute well on either cellular networks or Wi Fi networks. The same applies for various bandwidths speeds storage configurations security policies cross layer QOS and feedback loops with the devices and applications at large billing policies load and congestion policies and other data delivery options that are scalable or not with Quality Control Bits QCB in which different applications or sets of application settings could be different for these data conditions based on upon the specific requirements and or data triggers that are tagged to the application settings on the UE devices. If an application executing on the user equipment device might not function properly on a Wi Fi network the decision to route the network traffic to the Wi Fi network might be delayed and or disabled based on a trigger event and then possibly reinitiated based on another trigger event. In another example traffic flows might be split so that some traffic flows utilize the Wi Fi network while other traffic flows utilize the cellular network or another network device Macro Micro Femto cell device .

Another input can include user preferences. For example a user preference might be to route the network traffic to a Wi Fi network whenever a Wi Fi network is available. Such user preference is taken into consideration when a determination is made whether or not to route the network traffic to a Wi Fi network. In some instances the traffic will not be routed to the Wi Fi network even though the Wi Fi network is available and is preferred by the user e.g. user preference . These user preferences can be part of the application settings in which the settings for a billing scheme are entered to provide Wi Fi access for VoIP calling when the UE device is within an area of coverage or for data delivery options such as communicating other data for sharing aggregating and delivering on Wi Fi versus a cellular network device. With faster speeds required a 4GPP option could be a data delivery option or a radio network performance setting that is indicated or selected according to the application settings. Other examples and scenarios as this can also be envisioned with different networks speeds bandwidths policies and other consideration discussed herein with the applications of a UE the application settings of the corresponding applications and the radio network settings for a diversity of data delivery options.

A connection manager can be included as a portion of the user equipment device operating system OS such as the NOSA kernel discuss above. The connection manager can comprise instructions or actions on how to route user traffic to the proper radio e.g. Wi Fi radio or cellular radio on a per application basis e.g. as a function of the applications executing or expected to be executed on the user equipment device by splitting the traffic flows. It is noted that the term connection manager can refer to any entity that performs a traffic routing function e.g. such as a routing manager component . The connection manager also communicates application requirements settings for an application from the UE device and radio network settings as data delivery options from the set of SON devices or network environment in which the UE finds itself. For example the connection manager represents an entity that binds user application flow to a radio network and further bridges connections there between as a kernel for example among the OS kernels. The connection manager can be a native connection manager a connectivity engine or the like.

User equipment device intelligence can relate to intelligent network selection e.g. INS function which can relate to various information that can be known or generated internal to the user equipment device. Such intelligence can include battery usage level e.g. amount of battery life remaining statistics as to the amount of battery being consumed for various applications and or programs executing on the user equipment device and so on . Another example of user equipment device intelligence relates to the user equipment device relative movement to the Wi Fi access point. The relative movement can include speed vibration patterns and so on. For example relative movement can relate to whether the user equipment device is stationary or is moving and if moving the speed at which the user equipment device is being moved. In another example the relative movement can relate to a direction that the user equipment device is being moved relative to the locations of the various radio networks. This information can be received from the connection manager illustrated at according to an aspect.

As discussed above the connection manager is a generic term that refers to an entity such as the NOSA kernel discussed above which takes the input from the user preference and operator intelligent network selection instruction and performs a traffic routing function. For example the connection manager can bind user application flow and settings to a radio e.g. cellular radio and or Wi Fi radio and radio network settings. The connection manager can be a native connection manager a connectively engine or the like.

For example each communications network of the one or more communications networks can monitor parameters related to network congestion and or other network parameters. According to an implementation the parameters can include but are not limited to traffic load over the network available bandwidth of the network. Other parameters can include but are not limited to signal strength thresholds received signal strength indications subscriber profile based offset to signal strength thresholds percentage speed bandwidth data time shifting network storage real time traffic profiling analytics packet reprioritization and or forward functions.

The NOSA manager component can comprise various components to establish tight relationships with the UE device operation system and network devices such as the core components e.g. mobile core component and the serving network which operates as a managing server. The NOSA manager component can comprise an analysis component a policy component a tagging component a probe component a data delivery component and a UE parameter component for managing and facilitating close relationships between the network devices of a SON network environment and applications managed by a UE device on the network.

Transceiver component or another system component can be configured to obtain network selection policy information for a serving network e.g. from a network device that provides a service to the user equipment device . The network selection policy information can include discovery information and selection policies of the serving network .

For example the serving network can comprise an access network discovery and selection function server that can utilize network security techniques to communicate securely with a selected group of user equipment devices. For example access network discovery and selection function server can authenticate select user equipment devices application functions on the UE device and allow only those user equipment devices or applications that are serviced by a particular service provider to communicate with the access network discovery and selection function server . Further access network discovery and selection function server can utilize secure channels encoded channels encrypted channels and the like to perform communications within a wireless network environment.

Access network discovery and selection function server can create and determine network traffic steering rules or routing rules . The network traffic steering rules can be created for individual user equipment devices or for groups of user equipment devices and implemented based on the application requirements UE parameters ascertained by the UE parameter component or the network resources and policies available to the application . In one or more implementations access network discovery and selection function server can create group network traffic steering rules for groups of user equipment devices based on for example subscription profiles quality of service agreements user equipment device type user equipment device capabilities application specific policies and resources and so on.

According to an implementation a network traffic steering rule can include instructions to guide a user equipment device in connection with radio access network selection or provided to the application for implementing settings according to the rules policies and resources communicated from that serving network that are available with the mobile core component . For example a traffic steering rule can include instructions for radio access network selection or radio network settings based on network load condition mobility states user equipment device hardware metrics or parameters user equipment device performance metrics application settings and so on. The selections and network settings can be communicated to the transceiver component in order for the NOSA manager component to enable application functions to be implemented with the application according to the application settings . Additionally or alternatively the NOSA manager component can modify the application settings to operate under different conditions than the settings specified or configured in the application . Thus the NOSA manager component can operate to detect what the application demands are from the network devices communication network mobile core component serving network and enable the network to command what resources data delivery options that the application is capable of performing with.

The application can operate on a UE device e.g. laptop mobile or cloud service etc. . For example the application could be in the cloud network or storage in which a UE browser can facilitate operation. The application for example can be a browser or another application demanding data delivery. The application can translate the user s request to some actionable network request. The NOSA manger component operates to extending the network to agents or network OS agents that can handle activities e.g. data delivery demanded by the application .

The mobile core component e.g. core back end processor can comprise an integrated storage blade component e.g. storage blade or the like network memory managing system . The mobile core component can operate with the radio access network or communication network and is configured to control the sessions authentication packet forwarding etc. The mobile packet core component includes a storage blade which can also be communicatively coupled into the RAN which can provide opportunities for mobile delivery diversity so the packet data can be a part of the mobile packet core for specific delivery time delivery based on some special triggers or events and so on.

Further the access network discovery and selection function server can create one or more traffic steering rules when a new subscription is created when a subscription is modified when a user equipment device location changes application settings triggers events are modified UE parameters change and so forth. Thus access network discovery and selection function server can create and or modify traffic steering rules and store the traffic steering rules in one or more data stores e.g. a library for future use. The NOSA manager component can be further configured to communicate these rules policies or resources available to the application . The application can be halted based on a trigger event occur which can include an inadequate resource or an expectation of inadequate resource from a particular network based on UE parameters speed movement direction location accelerometer data etc. . The NOSA manager component can modify the application settings in anticipation of the application operating at a different level or different data delivery option which can be for a period of time indefinitely or a specified delivery time according to a trigger event.

The trigger events can be specified by the application or the serving network and tagged by a tagging component of the NOSA manger component . The tagging component can be configured to set or assign different priorities to different triggers according to the policy component . For example caching functions segmentation and packet reassembly time shifting of certain packet flows can be considered or tagged in order accommodate load balancing requirements with the application and the network devices. Thus the NOSA manager component can control tagging mechanisms via the tagging component that enables such functions inside the networks . In one example the UE device or application on the UE device can initiate the data flow that has some policies associated with it via the policy component being initiated at home but as the UE device moves such as within a car or moves at a faster speed thereby changing the UE parameters ascertained by the UE parameter component networks could be changed from a trigger event being communicated to the network. In addition network conditions and load and congestion policies could be changed by the network and or the application settings. These policies could be tagged and or changed as these conditions change by the NOSA manger component . The NOSA manger component is configured to know what the critical packets or critical data packet units are for data delivery and can monitor network resources available via the probe component to make sure those get delivered by signaling network devices UE parameters and application demands application settings in order to make delivery continuous and maintain a quality of experience as these data flows are communicated with the network dynamics.

In another example the storage blade component or other network attached storage to the mobile packet core component and or RAN environment operates to perform according to the tags of the tagging component in which the tags can operate as stop signs on the network when the receiver or transceiver is not ready or when the data is not properly formed formatted shaped or aggregated for proper delivery. For example the data of the application can be halted until an aggregation of data occurs and then delivery in the appropriate setting or manner by the NOSA manger component and to the storage blade component for proper delivery or packet flow in real time with caching network attached storage NAS and the like that is aware of the application demands according to a data flow policy or option.

For example an application could be operating on a UE device by doing social networking or trying to collect data from the server in which a trigger could be tagged or a set of application settings having certain network demands via the tagging component . The trigger could designated whoever has a highest priority as soon as his work convenes then the application could trigger that the data aggregation is complete and the results are to be shared rather than constantly sharing data as it is received. In addition the triggers or events could be requested from inside the application where the application says start gathering what everyone is thinking on this vote until the one person provides his or her votes a certain machine or other UE device returns votes or a predefined time elapses until then continue collecting information within this social environment within a particular data stream until a certain event trigger happens. A trigger for example could be a period of time someone else s action or any other event. Applications can define their own triggers that initiate data delivery such as to continue collecting data operate another task inside network or application halt delivery to any UE device until another UE is close enough from a GPS perspective or other geographical location sensed to initiate a trigger for data delivery based on available network resources or devices. In addition a network can have triggers set or tagged for application . For example a Wi Fi network could have sixty triggers that are discoverable by the application. In addition the UE device enter onto a San Francisco street network that has another set of triggers discoverable by the same app. Thus the UE can tag certain triggers from the network or the application activate or handle different triggers based on the UE or application demands.

In some implementations access network discovery and selection function server can communicate traffic steering policies to the UE device e.g. UE device of or other UE device communicatively coupled to the components of . In one aspect access network discovery and selection function server can assist the UE device in discovery of non third generation partnership project access networks e.g. Wi Fi or worldwide interoperability for microwave access . In another aspect access network discovery and selection function server can select appropriate traffic steering policies for a user equipment device and issue the policies. In one aspect access network discovery and selection function server selects the traffic steering rule based on the policies associated with the UE device via the policy component or application such as a user subscription a user account or other classification associated with a UE device. In another aspect access network discovery and selection function server communicates the appropriate traffic steering policy over a communication framework. In an aspect access network discovery and selection function server can communicate directly with UE devices through a server to client connection e.g. standard S14 interface . However access network discovery and selection function server can communicate with UE devices through an indirect connection a cellular broadcast and the like in accordance with some implementations.

The policy information provided by the access network discovery and selection function server can be retained in the one or more data stores the storage blade component or by the policy component . According to an implementation one or more data stores can be integrated with the NOSA manger component the other component coupled there and or memory . In another implementation one or more data stores can be located external to but accessible by the NOSA manger component the other component coupled there and or memory .

The evaluation manager component can to receive information related to the user equipment device and operate in conjunction with the NOSA manger component . For example usage of the UE device can be received by the evaluation manager component . The usage can indicate how the device is being used e.g. voice call data call streaming video surfing the Internet and so forth . The usage can also indicate the applications being executed on the user equipment device wherein more than one application might be executing at any particular time. Some applications might perform better e.g. have a better connectivity with a cellular network and other applications might perform as expected on either a cellular network or a Wi Fi network. According to an implementation traffic flows of the user equipment device can be split between radio networks as discussed herein.

Other information related to the user equipment device and received by the evaluation manager component can be one or more mobility parameters of the user equipment device. A mobility parameter can relate to whether the user equipment device is stationary or is moving and if moving a speed at which the user equipment device is being moved. For example the user equipment device might be stationary e.g. a user of the user equipment device is sitting at her desk . In another example the user equipment device might be moved and traveling at different speeds which can be a function of the mode of transportation e.g. walking riding a bicycle in a car on a train in an airplane and so on .

Another parameter relates to the direction that the user equipment device is being moved. The direction can be a horizontal direction which can be associated with cardinal directions or cardinal points e.g. north south east west or intermediate points . Further the direction can include an altitude or changes in the height of the user equipment device. For example the user equipment device might be traveling in an elevator and a range of one network might not reach all points along that altitude e.g. connectivity is only enabled at the higher locations .

An analysis component can be configured to compare the information related to the networks and the information related to the user equipment device. For example if a network has a congestion condition that is near or approaching a maximum congestion level that network might be removed from consideration. In another example if the user equipment device is being moved toward a network the evaluation manager component and or analysis component can take into consideration the movement of the user equipment device and might give more consideration to the one or more networks that are expected to be located along the movement path of the user equipment device.

A policy component can be configured to review the recommendation provided by the analysis component and determine if the selected network complies with the access network discovery and selection function policy of the serving network . According to some aspects the policy component ascertains whether a network conforms to the policy which could be a set of application settings or demands before the analysis component analyzes the information related to the network. Thus if a particular network does not conform to the policy that particular network is not considered by the analysis component . Further information related to that network is not obtained or is disregarded if such information is obtained .

Based on the recommendation of the analysis component a selection manager component can determine to which radio technology or radio network e.g. set of network devices the network traffic of the user equipment device should be routed or select from options that are communicated via the data delivery component for different network delivery options or networks available e.g. 3GPP 4GPP Wi Fi Femto cell Macro cell etc. . For example the comparison by the analysis component might reveal that although various networks could properly service the user equipment device based on user preferences only cellular networks should be used which can be based on a pricing engine or billing tier or other events being tagged. In another example the networks could service the UE and the application based on user preferences application settings etc. according to one or more triggers initiating a set of tags for one or more sets of application settings in which Wi Fi networks should be used where feasible or other data delivery option comprising one or more storage options packet flows or other resource considerations. In a further example based on an application or multiple applications executing on the user equipment device a particular radio technology or more than one radio technology can be selected for at least a portion of the user traffic.

A routing manager component provides the appropriate signaling to the source network and the target network in order to route at least a portion of the network traffic of the user equipment device to the selected network. Such signaling can utilize various types of signaling as a function of the network types and other parameters.

In another embodiment the application services and API manger can further be configured to operate a scalable application level control ring that operates as a network level ring. The network level ring analyzes the tags of the tagging component which can be set by the NOSA manger component or NOSA kernel. The network level ring of the application services and API manager can function as another layer on top of the existing switches or routing devices for providing routing in consideration of the tags related to the application settings or the data delivery options for a set of radio network options performance options . The tags could be set for different subsets of applications settings to be triggered according to event triggers specified in the application settings or by a particular network. The data delivery options can be based on a data delivery trigger occurring to satisfy a data delivery that is controlled or selected by the application performance or demand level specified by the set of application settings. The application services and API manger can therefore control the application level control ring and switch networks or select other data delivery options by specifying the network or other radio network performance settings for network resources. The data delivery options can comprise a different network device option that selects a different network device of the self organizing network devices to deliver data than a current network device e.g. from a cellular network device to a Wi Fi network device . The data delivery options can include a network observed signaling data representing a signaling of the set of self organizing network devices associated with a network device option of the set e.g. packet priority time shifting functions signal threshold levels storage management processes available etc. . The application services and API manager can thus communicate to underlying switches of routers in the network the application level ring with tag information for particular applications operating on the UE for the router devices or network devices to consider along with other tags and switching concepts for network operation. For example the application services and API manager can provide another level of routing switching and aggregation at the transport layer and up before data is processed back down for communications.

While the methods described within this disclosure are illustrated in and described herein as a series of acts or events it will be appreciated that the illustrated ordering of such acts or events are not to be interpreted in a limiting sense. For example some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts or events apart from those illustrated and or described herein. In addition not all illustrated acts may be required to implement one or more aspects or embodiments of the description herein. Further one or more of the acts depicted herein may be carried out in one or more separate acts and or phases. Reference may be made to the figures described above for ease of description. However the methods are not limited to any particular embodiment or example provided within this disclosure and can be applied to any of the systems disclosed herein.

At a determination is made as to a radio performance settings associated with at least one of the set of network devices to which at least a portion of the network traffic of the mobile device can be routed or is currently operating data delivery. The determination can include considerations related to adhering to the discovery information and selection policies associated with a set of network devices of a serving network e.g. source network . For example if a particular network is not an appropriate network according to the discovery information and selection policies e.g. groups or subsets of applications settings based on one or more tags for trigger events then that network is removed from consideration or the application setting themselves could be modified.

Network traffic of the mobile device is routed at to the selected set of network devices for different radio network performance settings. According to some aspects a portion of the network traffic of the mobile device can be routed to a first set of network devices associated with a first radio technology and another portion of the network traffic of the mobile device is routed to a second set of network devices associated with a second radio technology. For example traffic flows of the mobile device can be split between the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices based on one or more application functions or processes being initiated.

At the device extends the set of self organizing devices to be context aware of the application and the network device.

At in response to detecting the user equipment device communicating via the set of self organizing network devices communicating by the device to the application and the user equipment device and obtaining by the device a set of user equipment device parameters and a set of application settings of the application.

At modifying by the device a set of radio network performance settings of the set of self organizing network devices with the user equipment device based on the set of user equipment device parameters and the set of application settings of the application.

The set of user equipment device parameters can comprise user equipment sensed data related to the user equipment device such as by one or more sensors on the UE device for example. The user equipment sensed data comprises accelerometer data battery power data speed data direction data network observed signaling data representing a signaling of the set of self organizing network devices load data representing a load of the set of self organizing network devices and congestion data representing a congestion of the set of self organizing network devices.

The radio network performance settings can include load congestion time shifting prioritization policies a bandwidth speed a network selection load and forward functions of the networks that can be provided for the application as resources available for example. The network performance settings can includes sets of performance parameters as discussed herein available from SON devices within the area or location of the UE device based on the UE parameters ascertained for example such as network congestion conditions and other network parameters associated with one or more different network devices as discussed above.

At in response to detecting the user equipment device communicating via the set of self organizing network devices communicating a set of application settings that include a set of data delivery triggers associated with the application and a set of user equipment device parameters associated with the user equipment device.

At in response to detecting the user equipment device communicating via the set of self organizing network devices communicating a set of data delivery options from the network device of the set of self organizing network devices to the user equipment device based on the set of application settings and the set of user equipment device parameters.

In one embodiment the method can further include selecting a data delivery option of the set of data delivery options based on a data delivery trigger occurring to satisfy a data delivery specified by the set of application settings. The data delivery options for example can comprise a different network device option for the different network device of the self organizing network devices to deliver data network observed signaling data representing a signaling of the set of self organizing network devices associated with a network device option of the set of self organizing network devices load data representing a load of the set of self organizing network devices and congestion data representing a congestion of the set of self organizing network devices.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to facilitate network traffic routing selection is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and include the illustrative wireless environment however it is noted that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It is noted that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or eNodeBs and . Any two eNodeBs can be considered an eNodeB site pair. It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. eNode B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network. It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for universal mobile telecommunication system based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface universal mobile telecommunication system Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched based e.g. voice and data and packet switched e.g. Internet protocol frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any electromagnetic frequency bands licensed by the service provider network e.g. personal communication services advanced wireless services general wireless communications service and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. . Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system global system for mobile communication mobile network platform can be embodied in the service provider network .

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components such as T1 E1 phone line T3 DS3 line a digital subscriber line either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric digital subscriber line an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight or non line of sight links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for universal mobile telecommunication system based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It is noted that while exemplary wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in micro cells pico cells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based equipment related to access to a network.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of access equipment and or software related to access of a network e.g. base station wireless access point femtocell access point and so forth that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed aspects.

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments B is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access equipment and or software related to access of a network and can be controlled by a monitor component and an antenna component . Monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which can include electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and can convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that can facilitate manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Multiplexer demultiplexer can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing frequency division multiplexing orthogonal frequency division multiplexing code division multiplexing space division multiplexing. In addition multiplexer demultiplexer component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so forth .

A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation with M a positive integer phase shift keying and so forth .

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access equipment and or software . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access equipment and or software through for example monitor component antenna component and one or more components therein. Additionally access equipment and or software can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access equipment and or software or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be a liquid crystal display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or through touch gestures which can cause access equipment and or software to receive external commands e.g. restart operation .

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access equipment and or software to a service provider network not shown that can include one or more cellular technologies e.g. third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system global system for mobile communication and so on through backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access equipment and or software and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and so on. Moreover processor can be functionally connected through data system or an address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access equipment and or software memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access equipment and or software sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access equipment and or software radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access equipment and or software .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device including but not limited to including single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit a digital signal processor a field programmable gate array a programmable logic controller a complex programmable logic device a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components including the memory. It is noted that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation random access memory is available in many forms such as synchronous random access memory dynamic random access memory synchronous dynamic random access memory double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory enhanced synchronous dynamic random access memory Synchlink dynamic random access memory and direct Rambus random access memory. Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that performs particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. For example in memory there can be software which can instruct a processor to perform various actions. The processor can be configured to execute the instructions in order to implement the analysis of monitoring an uplink power level detecting the uplink power level is at or above a threshold level and or disable transmission of at least one message as a result of the monitored uplink power level.

Moreover those skilled in the art will understand that the various aspects can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers base stations hand held computing devices or user equipment such as a tablet phone watch and so forth processor based computers systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to industrial standard architecture micro channel architecture extended industrial standard architecture intelligent drive electronics video electronics standards association local bus peripheral component interconnect card bus universal serial bus advanced graphics port personal computer memory card international association bus Firewire and small computer systems interface.

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation random access memory is available in many forms such as dynamic random access memory synchronous random access memory synchronous dynamic random access memory double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory enhanced synchronous dynamic random access memory Synchlink dynamic random access memory and direct Rambus random access memory direct Rambus dynamic random access memory and Rambus dynamic random access memory.

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. In an implementation provided is a non transitory or tangible computer readable medium storing executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system comprising a processor to perform operations. The operations can include comparing a first network congestion condition and a first network parameter condition received from a first set of network devices of a first network and a second network congestion condition and a second network parameter condition received from a second set of network devices of a second network to a usage parameter and a movement parameter of a mobile device. The operations can also include determining a radio technology e.g. radio network device to which to route network traffic of the mobile device. Determining the routing of the network traffic can include based on a first outcome of the comparing determining to route the network traffic to the first set of network devices associated with a first radio technology. In another example determining the routing of the network traffic can include based on a second outcome of the comparing determining to route the network traffic of the mobile device to the second set of network devices associated with a second radio technology. In an implementation determining the set of network devices can include complying with a network selection policy received from a network device that provides a service to the mobile device. Further the operations can include facilitating routing of the network traffic of the mobile device to the set of network devices.

In an implementation the operations can include analyzing relative movement of the mobile device with respect to the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices. According to another implementation the operations can include determining speed data representing a substantially current speed of the mobile device and direction data representing a substantially current direction of the mobile device.

It is to be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications can take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information for example through interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus through interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus. Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a universal serial bus port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices such as monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It is also noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network computer a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only one memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected through communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks and wide area networks. Local area network technologies include fiber distributed data interface copper distributed data interface Ethernet token ring and the like. Wide area network technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks such as integrated services digital networks and variations thereon packet switching networks and digital subscriber lines.

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the aspects described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi worldwide interoperability for microwave access Enhanced gateway general packet radio service third generation partnership project long term evolution third generation partnership project ultra mobile broadband third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system high speed packet access high speed downlink packet access high speed uplink packet access global system for mobile communication edge radio access network universal mobile telecommunication system terrestrial radio access network long term evolution advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. global system for mobile communication. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as Internet protocol television can exploit aspect or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including the disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc digital versatile disc blu ray disc . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to random access memory read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory flash memory or other memory technology compact disk read only memory digital versatile disk or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output components as well as associated processor application or application programming interface components.

The term set subset or the like as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein . Thus a set subset or the like includes one or more elements or periods for example. As an illustration a set of periods includes one or more periods a set of transmissions includes one or more transmissions a set of resources includes one or more resources a set of messages includes one or more messages and so forth.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

