---

title: Provisioning access point bandwidth based on predetermined events
abstract: The present disclosure discloses a method and network device for provisioning access point bandwidth based on predetermined events. The disclosed system identifies a pattern for one or more devices over a period of time, the pattern indicating that the one or more devices (a) connect to a particular access point at a particular time of day, or (b) are located near the particular access point at the particular time of day. Prior or approximately the particular time, the disclosed system facilitates at least one client device associated with the particular access point to associate with a second and different access point. The disclosed system then provides, by the particular access point to the one or more devices, access to network resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591562&OS=09591562&RS=09591562
owner: Aruba Networks, Inc.
number: 09591562
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131031
---
The present disclosure is related to the following patent applications 1 U.S. Patent entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ADVERTISING THE SAME SERVICE SET IDENTIFIER FOR DIFFERENT BASIC SERVICE SETS by Melkote et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 948 953 filed Dec. 19 2005 2 U.S. Patent entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ADVERTISING THE SAME SERVICE SET IDENTIFIER FOR DIFFERENT BASIC SERVICE SETS by Melkote et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 401 554 filed Mar. 22 2011 3 U.S. Patent entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ADVERTISING THE SAME SERVICE SET IDENTIFIER FOR DIFFERENT BASIC SERVICE SETS by Melkote et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 483 169 filed Feb. 1 2013 4 U.S. Patent Application entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ADVERTISING THE SAME SERVICE SET IDENTIFIER FOR DIFFERENT BASIC SERVICE SETS by Melkote et al. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 910 976 filed Jun. 5 2013 5 U.S. Patent Application entitled INFRASTRUCTURE ASSISTED CLIENT MANAGEMENT USING SYNTHESIZED BEACON REPORTS by Ganu et al. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 195 720 filed Aug. 1 2011 6 U.S. Patent Application entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RELIABLE MULTICAST OVER SHARED WIRELESS MEDIA FOR SPECTRUM EFFICIENCY AND BATTERY POWER CONSERVATION by Ganu et al. U.S. application Ser. No. 14 065 326 filed Oct. 28th 2013 and 7 U.S. Patent Application entitled SYSTEM APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MANAGING NETWORK DEVICE CONNECTIVITY ON HETEROGENOUS NETWORKS by Ganu et al. U.S. application Ser. No. 14 065 343 filed Oct. 28 2013. The entire contents of the above mentioned patents and or patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to network performance. In particular the present disclosure relates to a method and system for provisioning access point bandwidth based on predetermined events.

Adaptive Radio Management ARM technology optimizes wireless local area network behavior and automatically ensures that access points APs stay clear of RF interference resulting in a more reliable higher performing wireless network. Without disconnecting clients or disrupting applications ARM can automatically adjust channel assignments on access points. Working with ARM Aruba Networks Inc. s ClientMatch technology automatically steers devices to the best AP in the network. This boosts WLAN performance and ensures consistent client performance eliminating sticky client problems.

Conventionally ARM reacts to client interactions for example when a client tries to connect to a wireless network ARM matches the best available AP to the client. Note that ARM repeats this same process each day when the same client tries to connect with the same AP or same set of APs. However mobile users typically follow certain activity patterns for example based on time of day. Thus it would be inefficient for ARM to re run the same process to figure out the same best AP for the same client at around the same time everyday when the client tries to connect to the wireless network. This is especially true in a campus network or an office network where students or employees observe a relatively fixed set of schedules.

In the following description several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding. While the context of the disclosure is directed to network flooding one skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the concepts and techniques disclosed herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or in combination with other components etc. In other instances well known implementations or operations are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of various examples disclosed herein. It should be understood that this disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure relates to network performance. In particular the present disclosure relates to a method and system for provisioning access point bandwidth based on predetermined events. Specifically the disclosed system identifies a pattern for one or more devices over a period of time the pattern indicating that the one or more devices a connect to a particular access point at a particular time of day or b are located near the particular access point at the particular time of day. Prior or approximately the particular time the disclosed system facilitates at least one client device associated with the particular access point to associate with a second and different access point. The disclosed system then provides by the particular access point to the one or more devices access to network resources.

Note that is a simplified example used for illustration purposes only. In scalable enterprise WLANs multiple network switches and or network controlling devices can be deployed with multiple broadcast domains configured on each network switch. Nevertheless each network switch or network controlling device functions in similar fashion.

Hereinafter a digital device can be a server a network device and or a client device. A network device generally refers to devices providing for network traffic transmission services such as a network controller an access point a router etc. A network controller may be a hardware device and or software module that provide network managements which include but are not limited to controlling planning allocating deploying coordinating and monitoring the resources of a network network planning frequency allocation predetermined traffic routing to support load balancing cryptographic key distribution authorization configuration management fault management security management performance management bandwidth management route analytics and accounting management etc.

An access point may be interconnected with zero or more client devices via either a wired interface or a wireless interface. An access point generally refers to a network device that allows wireless clients to connect to a wired network. Access points usually connect to other network devices via a wired or wireless network.

A router can forward traffic to and receive traffic from the Internet. The router generally is a network device that forwards data packets between different networks and thus creating an overlay internetwork. A router is typically connected to two or more data lines from different networks. When a data packet comes in one of the data lines the router reads the address information in the packet to determine its destination. Then using information in its routing table or routing policy the router directs the packet to the next different network. A data packet is typically forwarded from one router to another router through the Internet until the packet gets to its destination.

A client device may be a computing device that includes a memory and a processor for example a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile email device a portable game player a portable music player a reader device a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto or other electronic device capable of accessing a network.

In some embodiments when there are multiple access points in a network network device determines which client device should be steered to connect with which access point based on the capabilities of the client device and the access point. In one embodiment network device bases its determination on connectivity between a client device and a plurality of APs that the client device connected to in the past and matches the client device to the AP that provided the best connectivity to the client device in the past.

In some embodiments when a client device is connected to an AP but does not transmit much network traffic through the AP for example when the client device is only used for checking emails occasionally the client device may not need to be matched to the AP providing best connectivity to the client device. Rather the client device may be matched to another AP with few capabilities allowing other client devices that transmit more network traffic for example client devices that are used for video conferences on a regular basis to be connected to the AP with better connectivity.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure a client profile is created for each client device in the network. The client profile includes a plurality of characteristics of data such as time of day associated access point identifier a signal strength level corresponding to signals transmitted from the client device number of transmitted packets number of received packets traffic or application type at a particular time for a particular duration etc.

The characteristics of data can be collected over a period of time at a fixed or variable interval. For example every 5 minutes the system may take a snapshot of the characteristics of data and update the repository. An internal and or external repository which can be deployed either locally or in a cloud can be used to store the client profile for all client devices in the network.

Furthermore tracks for a particular client device on a particular day what is the status of each access point in the network. An access point status corresponding to an A indicates that the particular client device is associated with the access point at the particular time of day. Likewise an access point status corresponding to an N indicates that the access point is located within the neighborhood of the client device at the particular time of day. Finally an access point status corresponding to an O indicates that the particular client device is neither associated nor located within the neighborhood of the access point.

Specifically in the example illustrated by at time 0 00 the particular client device is not connected to any of the access points in the network. At 9 00 to 10 00 the particular client device is connected to AP. Other neighboring APs of AP during this time include AP AP and AP. From 11 00 to 13 00 the particular client has roamed in the network and is associated with AP whose neighboring APs include AP and AP. Moreover AP may not be in the neighborhood of AP at 11 am for example due to scheduled maintenance but AP becomes active in the neighborhood of AP from 12 00 to 13 00.

Note that the associated and neighboring AP information can be obtained based on communication exchanges during the particular client device s association phase. Moreover at a fixed and frequent interval e.g. every 60 seconds the AP that the particular client is associated to can send to a network controller device a snapshot of client statistical information which includes but is not limited to client connectivity signal strength amount of traffic application specific traffic etc. Various characteristics of data can be extracted from the snapshot of client statistical information.

Similar to the associated AP status illustrated in other characteristics of data may be tracked as well. Thus the same table as in can be used to show signal strength level related to signals received to or from a particular client device at various times of day. Alternatively the table can also be used to show the total number of transmitted and or received packets to from the particular client device at various times of day. Moreover the table shown in can be modified to track two or more of the aforementioned characteristics of data in combination.

Based on the collected characteristics of data the system can then compute the probabilities of predetermined events at a particular time of day. For example the system can compute the probability of a particular client device connecting to a particular AP at 9 am everyday running a video conferencing application for 15 minutes every day or on Monday every week etc.

Note that the data used to generate the client profile can be either current data or historical data or both. By taking into account a large amount of historical data in the computation of probabilities of predetermined events the disclosed system effectively avoids losing information or collecting incomplete information about a client device s activities throughout the day. It is advantageous to store the large amount of historical data on a storage device external to the network controller device to minimize its impact on the network controller device s performance and boost the performance of query on historical client data.

Moreover building a client profile over an extend period of time allows for predicting probabilities associated with each predicted event. The longer the time period the more data collected the more accurate the prediction of the probabilities is when a client traffic pattern is detected.

As such the system can analyze the client profiles for consistent client traffic patterns over time. Furthermore based on the observed consistent client traffic patterns the system can change the behaviors of access points in the network for example by allowing fewer clients to be connected to certain access points at certain time of the day.

Specifically illustrates an exemplary chart depicting the access point that a particular client device is associated with during various times of day according to embodiments of the present disclosure. In the horizontal axis represents time of day and the vertical axis represents associated access point which corresponds to the access point that the particular client is associated with at any given time of the day . Here for example at time point t the client is associated with AP at time point t the client is associated with AP at time point t the client is associated with AP at time point t the client is associated with AP at time point t the client is associated with AP etc.

The application and or application categories may be determined by deep packet inspection and may include for example voice video applications File Transfer Protocol FTP applications SSI session applications etc. Because traffic from each application category are typically transmitted via a particular port the network controller device may determine the type of application or application category by checking the header of the packets for the port identifier or session identifier corresponding to each packet.

In the horizontal plane represents time of day and a specific characteristic of data which may be any one or a combination of characteristics of data described in the above section. Moreover the vertical axis represents a probability indicating how likely each traffic pattern will occur at the particular time of day between the particular client device and the particular AP in the future.

With probability distribution information of the traffic pattern illustrated in the system can then generate queries based on time of day traffic statistics patterns events and probability associated with the queried traffic statistics pattern occurring at the queried time of day. Based on the query results the system can generate forecasts of specific traffic statistics patterns and or events when the associated probability is greater than a threshold value. The followings are a few examples of characteristics of traffic data and its associated probabilities that the system may query for Assoc AP client 10MB client 

In the horizontal axis represents time of day and the vertical axis represents characteristics of data which may be any one or a combination of characteristics of data described in the above section. Here forecasted traffic pattern occurs between time point h h and time point h. As illustrated in it is predicted with a probability above a predetermined threshold that traffic transmitted to and from a particular client device time point h h and time point hwill increase. The prediction of the increased traffic pattern at time point h h is made at time point h and thus allowing the associated AP s bandwidth to be provisioned in advance during h prior to forecasted traffic pattern occurs.

Based on forecasted traffic pattern predicted at time point during period between time point h h and h t the system enforces a number of network policies. The network policies may include for example refraining from responding to other clients association request steering existing clients to connect to other neighboring APs restricting the amount of traffic that can be transmitted by other clients connected to the AP etc. The goals of enforcing the network policies include but are not limited to providing sufficient bandwidth for forecasted traffic pattern providing priority to the particular client device that uses network resources heavily and efficiently improving the performance of the associated AP etc.

It is also important to note that at time point i.e. time point h t if forecasted traffic pattern has not been actually detected the system will stop enforcing the network policies. Thus the system will allow other client devices to utilize the bandwidth that has been provisioned for the particular client in anticipation of forecasted traffic pattern in the event that forecasted traffic pattern did not actually occur at approximately the predicted time h h.

In one embodiment the disclosed system may predict that a particular client device will connect to a particular AP at 9 am and starts transmitting heavy traffic loads immediately based on historical characteristics of data collected from the particular client device and the network in the past. The system can then provision the particular access point to reserve a certain amount of bandwidth for the anticipated traffic increase prior to the particular client devices connects to the particular AP at 9 am. This may be done by for example steering some existing client devices that are connected to the particular AP to its neighboring APs prior to 9 am e.g. at 8 55 am so that the particular AP has available bandwidth for the particular client with anticipated traffic increase to be connected at 9 am.

It is important to note that the system in accordance with the present disclosure is able to provision the AP s bandwidth in advance prior to a forecasted time when the anticipated traffic pattern occurs. If on the other hand a specified duration has lapsed after the forecasted time but the anticipated traffic pattern does not actually occur or detected the system will stop enforcing the AP bandwidth provisioning policies which have been created in anticipation of the traffic pattern.

In another embodiment the system selects among a plurality of APs the best AP for the particular client to connect based on two or more of client characteristics including the number of transmitted packets at a particular time the number of received packets at a particular time the type of traffic e.g. voice video data etc. the type of application e.g. video conferencing application Internet browser email client application etc. etc.

In some embodiments the system may use the forecasted traffic pattern to prioritize traffic and or improve AP s performance in lieu of provisioning the access points. For example an AP may have the capability of supporting IEEE 802.11ac standards. That is the AP is able to operate on 20 MHz band 40 MHz band 80 MHz band or 160 MHz band. However the AP is only configured for operating on 20 MHz and 40 MHz bands because of high client density in the surrounding area. When client density is high in order to reduce the noise level the AP is usually provisioned to operate at 20 MHz band to provide more stable performance. If a portion of the clients connected to the AP are steered away to the neighboring APs in anticipation of a key client connecting to the AP in the near future with a forecasted traffic pattern the reduced client density may make it possible for the AP to be configured for operating on 80 MHz or 160 MHz bands. By doing so the system improves the performance of the AP and also gives high priority to the traffic associated with the key client.

Specifically in some embodiments the disclosed system may optionally configure the particular access point to accept a request from the particular client device the request being related to obtaining network access operation .

In other embodiments the disclosed system may optionally configure one or more access points other than the particular access point from the plurality of access points to reject the request from the particular client device operation .

Furthermore note that the characteristics of the data transmitted by the particular client device may indicate one or more of an application or an application type corresponding to the data an amount of the data transmitted by the particular client device etc. Moreover the data transmitted by the particular client device includes current data being transmitted when the selecting operation is performed and or historical data collected over a long period of time.

Also characteristics of data include characteristics of data that are typically transmitted by the particular client device at a same period of time during a set of one or more prior days.

As illustrated in during operations the disclosed system identifies a pattern for one or more devices over a period of time operation . The pattern may indicate that the one or more devices a connect to a particular access point at a particular time of day or b are located near the particular access point at the particular time of day. In some embodiments the pattern is determined based on historical usage of the one or more client devices. In other embodiments the pattern is based on a calendared event associated with a user of the one or more client devices.

In response to identifying the pattern the disclosed system may optionally compute a probability associated with identified pattern at a particular time of day for the one or more devices operation . Specifically the computed probability may comprise a probability value that the one or more devices a connect to the particular access point at the particular time of day or b are located near the particular access point at the particular time of day. Alternatively the computed probability may comprise a probability that an amount of data transmitted by the one or more devices will exceed a threshold value during a period of time starting at approximately the particular time.

Then the disclosed system determines whether the computed probability exceeds a predetermined threshold operation . If not the flow is redirected to operation for identification of the next pattern possibly at a different particular time of day for a different device or a different set of devices.

If the computed probability exceeds the predetermine threshold then prior to or approximately at the particular time the disclosed system facilitates at least one client device associated with the particular access point to associate with a second access point that is different from the particular access point operation . In particular the facilitating operation may be based on user characteristics of a user associated with the one or more client devices characteristics of data transmitted by the one or more client devices one or more applications corresponding to data transmitted by the one or more client devices or a combination of the aforementioned characteristics.

In some embodiments the disclosed system optionally accepts an association request for network access from each of the one or more devices at approximately particular time of day operation . Moreover the disclosed system provides by the particular access point to the one or more devices access to network resources operation .

In some embodiments the facilitating operation is performed when the at least one client device has a better level of connectivity with the particular access point than the second access point. In other embodiments the facilitating operation is performed upon determining that the at least one client device historically transmits less data than the one or more client devices. In yet another embodiment the facilitating operation is performed upon determining that a load at the particular access point is to be reduced.

In some embodiments the disclosed system identifies a pattern for a second device over a period of time. Furthermore the pattern indicates that the second device will connect to the particular access point at a particular time of day. In response to identifying the pattern and prior to prior to or approximately at the particular time the disclosed system facilitates at least one client device associated with the particular access point to associate with a different access point. Then the disclosed system determines that the second device did not actually connect to the particular access point at approximately the particular time of day. Accordingly the disclosed system refrains from facilitating client devices associated with the particular access point to associate with other access points.

Network interface can be any communication interface which includes but is not limited to a modem token ring interface Ethernet interface wireless IEEE 802.11 interface e.g. IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.11ac etc. cellular wireless interface satellite transmission interface or any other interface for coupling network devices. In some embodiments network interface may be software defined and programmable for example via an Application Programming Interface API and thus allowing for remote control of the network device .

Memory can include storage components such as Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static Random Access Memory SRAM etc. In some embodiments memory includes one or more VLAN membership table or list to store membership information of user VLANs and service VLANs. In some embodiments the user VLAN membership information is dynamically maintained to reflect the active user VLANs that have packet transmissions within a predetermined period of time.

Processor typically includes a networking processor that is capable of processing network data traffic. In some embodiments processor may include multiple processing cores and or ASICs.

Receiving mechanism generally receives packets from other devices in a network via network interface . Transmitting mechanism generally transmits packets to other devices in a network via network interface .

Identifying mechanism generally identifies a traffic pattern. The pattern may indicate for example that the one or more devices a connect to a particular access point at a particular time of day or b are located near the particular access point at the particular time of day.

Further identifying mechanism can also identify characteristics of data transmitted by a particular client device. The characteristics of the data transmitted by the particular client device may indicate one or more of an application or an application type corresponding to the data an amount of the data transmitted by the particular client device etc. Moreover the data transmitted by the particular client device includes current data being transmitted when the selecting operation is performed and or historical data collected over a long period of time. Also characteristics of data include characteristics of data that are typically transmitted by the particular client device at a same period of time during a set of one or more prior days.

In some embodiments the pattern is determined based on historical usage of the one or more client devices. In other embodiments the pattern is based on a calendared event associated with a user of the one or more client devices.

Predicting mechanism generally forecasts a traffic pattern. Specifically in some embodiments predicting mechanism can compute a probability value that the one or more devices a connect to the particular access point at the particular time of day or b are located near the particular access point at the particular time of day. Moreover predicting mechanism determines whether the computed probability exceeds a threshold value. In other embodiments predicting mechanism computes a probability that an amount of data transmitted by the one or more devices will exceed a threshold value during a period of time starting at approximately the particular time.

Facilitating mechanism generally facilitates access points to provide network access to client devices. In some embodiments facilitating mechanism selects a particular access point from a plurality of access points to provide network access to the particular client device based on the characteristics of the data transmitted by the particular client device. Facilitating mechanism then facilitates the particular client device to associate with the particular access point from the plurality of access points for the particular client device to obtain the network access.

Optionally in some embodiments facilitating mechanism may configure the particular access point to accept a request from the particular client device the request being related to obtaining network access. In other embodiments facilitating mechanism may configure one or more access points other than the particular access point from the plurality of access points to reject the request from the particular client device.

Moreover responsive to a pattern being identified prior to or approximately at the particular time facilitating mechanism facilitates at least one client device associated with the particular access point to associate with a second access point that is different from the particular access point. Also facilitating mechanism provides access to network resources through the particular access point to the one or more devices.

In some embodiments facilitating mechanism performs facilitating operations when the at least one client device has a better level of connectivity with the particular access point than the second access point. In other embodiments facilitating mechanism performs facilitating operations upon determining that the at least one client device historically transmits less data than the one or more client devices. In yet another embodiment facilitating mechanism performs facilitating operations upon determining that a load at the particular access point is to be reduced.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure network services provided by network device solely or in combination with other wireless network devices include but are not limited to an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.1x authentication to an internal and or external Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server an MAC authentication to an internal and or external RADIUS server a built in Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP service to assign wireless client devices IP addresses an internal secured management interface Layer 3 forwarding Network Address Translation NAT service between the wireless network and a wired network coupled to the network device an internal and or external captive portal an external management system for managing the network devices in the wireless network etc.

The present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems coupled to a network. A typical combination of hardware and software may be an access point with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the device such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present disclosure also may be embedded in non transitory fashion in a computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

As used herein digital device generally includes a device that is adapted to transmit and or receive signaling and to process information within such signaling such as a station e.g. any data processing equipment such as a computer cellular phone personal digital assistant tablet devices etc. an access point data transfer devices such as network switches routers controllers etc. or the like.

As used herein access point AP generally refers to receiving points for any known or convenient wireless access technology which may later become known. Specifically the term AP is not intended to be limited to IEEE 802.11 based APs. APs generally function as an electronic device that is adapted to allow wireless devices to connect to a wired network via various communications standards.

As used herein the term interconnect or used descriptively as interconnected is generally defined as a communication pathway established over an information carrying medium. The interconnect may be a wired interconnect wherein the medium is a physical medium e.g. electrical wire optical fiber cable bus traces etc. a wireless interconnect e.g. air in combination with wireless signaling technology or a combination of these technologies.

As used herein information is generally defined as data address control management e.g. statistics or any combination thereof. For transmission information may be transmitted as a message namely a collection of bits in a predetermined format. One type of message namely a wireless message includes a header and payload data having a predetermined number of bits of information. The wireless message may be placed in a format as one or more packets frames or cells.

As used herein wireless local area network WLAN generally refers to a communications network links two or more devices using some wireless distribution method for example spread spectrum or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing radio and usually providing a connection through an access point to the Internet and thus providing users with the mobility to move around within a local coverage area and still stay connected to the network.

As used herein the term mechanism generally refers to a component of a system or device to serve one or more functions including but not limited to software components electronic components electrical components mechanical components electro mechanical components etc.

As used herein the term embodiment generally refers an embodiment that serves to illustrate by way of example but not limitation.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the preceding examples and embodiments are exemplary and not limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. It is intended that all permutations enhancements equivalents and improvements thereto that are apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings are included within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include all such modifications permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure has been described in terms of various embodiments the present disclosure should not be limited to only those embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Likewise where a reference to a standard is made in the present disclosure the reference is generally made to the current version of the standard as applicable to the disclosed technology area. However the described embodiments may be practiced under subsequent development of the standard within the spirit and scope of the description and appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting.

