---

title: Loading a re-directed web resource on a web browser of a client device in a communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, a client device transmits a request for an initial web resource to a proxy server. The proxy server requests the initial web resource on behalf of the client device in response to the client device's request. The proxy server then executes a web resource redirection procedure (which involves one or more redirects) that is independent of interaction with the client device and results in the proxy server obtaining web resource content. The proxy server delivers the web resource content to a proxy client application on the client device along with instructions for simulating, on the client device, the web resource redirection procedure between the proxy client application and a mobile web browser on the client device. The proxy client application on the client device then simulates the web resource redirection procedure that occurred at the proxy server as instructed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344512&OS=09344512&RS=09344512
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09344512
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131211
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 736 981 entitled LOADING A RE DIRECTED WEB PAGE ON A WEB BROWSER OF A CLIENT DEVICE IN A COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Dec. 13 2012 by the same inventors as the subject application assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate to loading a re directed web resource on a web browser of a client device in a communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

It is typical for client devices e.g. mobile devices such as cell phones that use the above noted communication systems or other types of access networks e.g. WiFi etc. to execute web browsing applications that load web pages from one or more web servers via the Internet. An initial loading of a web page will typically require processing at a given client device as well as the web server providing the web page before the web page can be loaded on the given client device e.g. DNS resolution web page redirection etc. . In the case of web page redirection the given client device will typically request an initial web page from the web server receive a re direct command from the web server and then subsequently request another web page based on the re direct command. This web page redirection procedure delays the loading of the web page and also consumes additional resources because two separate requests are issued for the web page i.e. the initial request and then the re direct request .

In an embodiment a client device transmits a request for an initial web resource to a proxy server. The proxy server requests the initial web resource on behalf of the client device in response to the client device s request. The proxy server then executes a web resource redirection procedure which involves one or more redirects that is independent of interaction with the client device and results in the proxy server obtaining web resource content. The proxy server delivers the web resource content to a proxy client application on the client device along with instructions for simulating on the client device the web resource redirection procedure between the proxy client application and a mobile web browser on the client device. The proxy client application on the client device then simulates the web resource redirection procedure that occurred at the proxy server as instructed.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs 1 . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs 1 . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE 4 or UE 5 over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to a server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the server via the core network and or the Internet and or to provide content e.g. web page downloads to the UEs.

In the POD does not necessarily interact with each mobile application resident on the client device and or with each instance of network access for the mobile applications 1 . . . N. Thereby illustrates an example whereby a data exchanged between the client device and the access network for application 1 is handled by the TCP IP stack while data exchanged between the client device and the access network e.g. transmissions of web page requests receptions of re direct commands for web pages etc. for applications 2 . . . N are handled by the POD instead of the TCP IP stack .

Further illustrated in is the access network which may correspond to the RAN the AP a wired Ethernet router or modem not shown etc. While the structural components e.g. Node Bs etc. of the access network are not illustrated in in detail the access network is shown as including the MOD . The access network is in turn connected to the Internet where a variety of servers can be accessed such as application servers A B and web servers C D. The MOD can be implemented at different network locations of the access network including but not limited to a serving Node B or base station or eNodeB of the client device an RNC or BSC and so on. As will be explained in greater detail below the MOD is responsible for interfacing with the POD on the client device and exchanging data packets with the client device on behalf of one or more mobile applications executing thereon. The MOD can also perform operations associated with web page re directs on behalf of a mobile web browsing application on the client device such as responding to a re direct command from a target web server without forwarding the re direct commands back to the client device that issued the request for the initial web page prior to re direct . From the perspective of both the mobile web browsing application executing on the client device and the target web servers that provide the web page content the operations of the POD and MOD are transparent such that any specialized MOD POD procedures do not necessarily require modification to the standard operation of the mobile web browsing application and or the target web servers.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B AP a BS Node B or eNodeB in the RAN etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the server etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the server etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server B illustrated in . In an example the server B may correspond to one example configuration of the IoT server described above. In the server B includes a processor B coupled to volatile memory B and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive B. The server B may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive B coupled to the processor B. The server B may also include network access ports B coupled to the processor B for establishing data connections with a network B such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server B of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access points B used by the server B to communicate with the network B the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor B and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory B the disk drive B and or the disc drive B. The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device of may be implemented as a server.

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

As will be appreciated it is relatively inefficient for the redirect message to be pushed back to the mobile web browser on the client device so that the mobile web browser can initiate another separate attempt to load the alternate web page. However problems can result if the HTTP proxy server simply attempts to respond to the redirect message itself without involving the mobile web browser on the client device as will be described with respect to .

Referring to correspond to through and will not be described further for the sake of brevity. At instead of sending a redirect message back to the mobile web browser on the client device as in of the HTTP proxy server instead requests the alternate web page itself. Accordingly the target server responds to the HTTP proxy server s request for the alternate web page with a 200 OK message the requested content for the alternate web page and a cookie for the alternate web page e.g. Cookie edition.cnn.com for the web page www.edition.cnn.com . The HTTP proxy server forwards the 200 OK message the requested content for the alternate web page and the cookie for the alternate web page to the mobile web browser on the client device .

However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art many web resources including HTML pages require that the mobile web browser know the exact URL from which the resource was downloaded. One reason for this is so that the mobile web browser can accurately download relative URLs of embedded resources. In the mobile web browser asked for the given web page at e.g. www.cnn.com but the mobile web browser received content for a different web page at e.g. www.edition.cnn.com . Thus the mobile web browser is fooled into thinking that it is loading content for www.cnn.com when the mobile web browser is actually loading content for www.edition.cnn.com. For this reason while the alternate web page is being loaded the mobile web browser may issue requests for relative URLs of embedded resources at and the HTTP proxy server forwards the relative resource request to the target server for the given web page . However the resource is relative to the alternate web page not the given web page such that the target server returns a Not Found error message . For this reason the mobile web browser will be unable to load the relative resource on its display of the alternate web page .

Referring to assume that the client device is implemented as shown in with respect to the client device such that the client device is provisioned with the POD and that the POD is configured to communicated with the MOD . At the mobile web browser determines to retrieve a given web page. Similar to for convenience of explanation the given web page is illustrated in as corresponding to www.cnn.com. At in assume that the given web page has not been requested earlier by the mobile web browser or at least not since the mobile web browser s cache has been cleared. Thus the mobile web browser has no special knowledge of any re directs or cookies for the given web page at . The mobile web browser attempts to transmit a request for the given web page to an associated target server or HTTP proxy server but the POD intercepts the attempted request and transmits the request to the MOD . The MOD forwards the request for the given web page to the target server associated with the given web page . At this point it is possible that the MOD is re directed to one or more intervening web pages before arriving at an alternate web page that provides the actual web page content to be returned to the mobile web browser as opposed to yet another redirect . Alternatively it is possible that the target server will redirect the MOD directly to the alternate web page that provides the web page content without any intervening redirects . Accordingly is shown with a dotted line in to convey that the intervening redirect operation is optional depending on whether any intervening redirects are implemented. If intervening redirects are used it will be appreciated that the MOD could potentially be redirected to a different server altogether from the target server. The target server or a different server in the case where an intervening redirect message is used to redirect the MOD to a different server responds to the request from or to another request from that is prompted by a previous intervening redirect if any with a redirect to the alternate web page such as a mobile version of the given web page e.g. www.edition.cnn.com .

At instead of sending a redirect message back to the mobile web browser on the client device as in of the MOD instead requests the alternate web page itself. Accordingly the target server responds to the MOD s request for the alternate web page with a 200 OK message and the requested content for the alternate web page . Similarly any intervening redirect messages if used at are also not sent back to the client device and the MOD independently requests any intervening web page itself as well.

At of the HTTP proxy server simply forwarded the re directed content to the mobile web browser as if it was providing content for the initially requested web page which resulted in errors when loading the web page at the mobile web browser. Accordingly the MOD forwards the 200 OK message and the requested content for the alternate web page to the POD along with a set of instructions or a Script for mimicking the redirect procedure for the alternate web page on the client device . Thus instead of presenting the redirected content to the mobile web browser as if it were the initially requested content the MOD asks the POD to recreate or mimic the redirect procedure from on the client device with the mobile web browser. An example of the type of script that may be provided at is as follows 

Referring to the POD receives the transmission of and implements the spoofed redirect procedure by optionally mimicking the intervening redirect procedure from and also sending a redirect message for the alternate web page to the mobile web browser which prompts the mobile web browser to respond with a request for the alternate web page the request for the alternate web page is intercepted by the POD and the POD responds to the request with the 200 OK message and the requested content for the alternate web page . At this point the mobile web browser loads the web page with the understanding that it has been redirected to the alternate web page such that the loading errors from do not occur.

Another reason that outsourcing the redirect procedure from the client device itself to a proxy server such as the HTTP proxy server from can be difficult to implement relates to cookie management. Web servers typically provide cookies for a web page to a new requestor of that web page with the 200 OK message and page content e.g. at of of of and so on as shown in . To provide context for it should be appreciated that under conventional cookie management protocols cookies are scoped to a specific domain that originated the cookies and web browsers receiving the cookies send exclusively to their respective originating servers.

While describes a redirect operation for a web page it will be appreciated that other types of redirects can also occur with respect to any type of web resource and not merely a web page. As used herein the term web resource is used to refer not only to web pages but also any network addressable element or object e.g. a data file such as an image file or video file a URL that maps to a streaming session etc. . With this in mind illustrates a proxy redirect procedure for a web resource in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

Generally the process of is similar to the process of except that the target web resource to be retrieved does not necessarily need to be a web page although this is certainly possible . A specific example is shown in whereby the mobile web browser is attempting to retrieve an image file at the URL of www.cnn.com image1.jpeg whereby the mobile web browser ultimately receives the image file at the URL of www.edition.cnn.com image1.mpeg based on the aforementioned redirect procedure being simulated locally at the mobile web browser by the POD . Accordingly except for the distinction between web pages and web resources discussed above B through B of substantially correspond to through of respectively and as such will not be discussed in further detail for the sake of brevity.

However in a system where the proxy server handles re directs on behalf of the client device such as in or the proxy server will be handling the re direct procedure and the proxy server does not necessarily know the cookie for the alternate web page. For example even though the HTTP proxy server forwards the 200 OK message and page content to the mobile web browser at of the HTTP proxy server does not cache the associated cookie for the alternate web page itself and thereby cannot use this cookie the next time that the HTTP proxy server attempts to load the alternate web page on behalf of the mobile web browser.

To explain the potential problems that can arise from this scenario is described below as a continuation of under the assumption that executes without the MOD maintaining a record of any cookies exchanged during the process of .

Referring to after of assume that the mobile web browser on the client device has a cookie for the alternate web page e.g. Cookie edition.cnn.com but not the given web page due to the re direct and that the MOD did not maintain a record of any cookies exchanged during the process of . With these assumptions if the mobile web browser determines to request the given web page again the mobile browser attempts to request the given web page at but does not provide a cookie for the given web page in its request because it is not available and will also not provide a cookie for the alternate web page in its request because the alternate web page is not being requested yet . The POD intercepts the attempted request and transmits the request to the MOD but the transmitted request also includes no cookies for the same reason as discussed above with respect to . The MOD forwards the request for the given web page to the target server associated with the given web page . At this point similar to of it is possible that the MOD is re directed to one or more intervening web pages before arriving at an alternate web page that provides the actual web page content to be returned to the mobile web browser as opposed to yet another redirect . Alternatively it is possible that the target server will redirect the MOD directly to the alternate web page that provides the web page content without any intervening redirects . Accordingly is shown with a dotted line in to convey that the intervening redirect operation is optional depending on whether any intervening redirects are implemented. If intervening redirects are used it will be appreciated that the MOD could potentially be redirected to a different server altogether from the target server. The target server or a different server in the case where an intervening redirect message is used to redirect the MOD to a different server responds to the request from or to another request from that is prompted by a previous intervening redirect if any with a redirect to the alternate web page such as a mobile version of the given web page e.g. www.edition.cnn.com . At this point the MOD does not know the cookie for the alternate web page e.g. see even though the mobile web browser on the client device has it cached. Thus through substantially correspond to through such that the target server provides the page content without knowledge of the cookie of the client device from the previous time the alternate web page was loaded at .

While describes a continuation of the process of whereby a supplemental request for a web page is shown it will be appreciated that other types of redirects can also occur with respect to any type of web resource and not merely a web page. With this in mind illustrates a continuation of the process of whereby a supplemental request for a web resource involving a proxy redirect procedure is shown in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

Generally the process of is similar to the process of except that the is a continuation of whereas is a continuation of and the target web resource to be retrieved in does not necessarily need to be a web page although this is certainly possible . A specific example is shown in whereby the mobile web browser is attempting to retrieve an image file at the URL of www.cnn.com image1.jpeg whereby the mobile web browser ultimately receives the image file at the URL of www.edition.cnn.com image1.mpeg based on the aforementioned redirect procedure being simulated locally at the mobile web browser by the POD . Accordingly except for the distinction between web pages and web resources discussed above B through B of substantially correspond to through of respectively and as such will not be discussed in further detail for the sake of brevity.

Referring to correspond to through of and will thereby not be described further for the sake of brevity. At the MOD generates a wrapped cookie for the given web page e.g. Cookie cnn.com . The wrapped cookie generated at is not an actual cookie provided from the web server hosting the given web page but is rather a fake cookie that will be used by the MOD to be able to identify the cookie for the alternate web page. Thus the MOD maintains access to a function or algorithm that can be applied to the wrapped cookies to unwrap or reconstruct the original cookies. In an example the wrapped cookie may be generated at the MOD by applying base64 to the cookie for the alternate web page and the wrapped cookie may later be unwrapped see of to reconstruct the cookie for the alternate web page. In a further example the wrapped cookie may be generated at the MOD by applying a cryptographic function or algorithm e.g. which may be based upon base64 in one implementation to the cookie for the alternate web page and the wrapped cookie may later be unwrapped see of by applying a decryption function or algorithm to reconstruct the cookie for the alternate web page

At the MOD forwards the 200 OK message the requested content for the alternate web page the cookie for the alternate web page to the POD and the wrapped cookie along with a set of instructions or a Script for mimicking the redirect procedure for the alternate web page on the client device. is similar to of except that the transmission of further includes the wrapped cookie which is configured to be interpreted as the cookie for the given web page i.e. the initially requested web page or www.cnn.com and not the alternate web page or www.edition.cnn.com by the mobile web browser.

Referring to the POD receives the transmission of and implements the spoofed redirect procedure by optionally simulating one or more intervening redirects e.g. as in of and sending a redirect message for the alternate web page to the mobile web browser . However the redirect message of further includes the wrapped cookie as if the wrapped cookie were the cookie for the given web page. Thus the inclusion of the wrapped cookie within the redirect message of causes the redirect message received by the mobile web browser to be different from the redirect message received at the MOD from the web server at .

The mobile web browser caches the wrapped cookie for the given web page . The mobile web browser also responds to the redirect message with a request for the alternate web page the request for the alternate web page is intercepted by the POD and the POD responds to the request with the 200 OK message the requested content for the alternate web page and the cookie for the alternate web page to the POD . At this point the mobile web browser loads the web page with the understanding that it has been redirected to the alternate web page .

Referring to after of assume that the mobile web browser on the client device has a cookie for the alternate web page e.g. Cookie edition.cnn.com and also the wrapped cookie e.g. Cookie cnn.com which the mobile web browser interprets as the cookie for the given web page . With these assumptions if the mobile web browser determines to request the given web page again the mobile browser attempts to request the given web page at while providing the wrapped cookie as the cookie for the given web page in its request. The POD intercepts the attempted request and transmits the request to the MOD with the wrapped cookie . The MOD detects the wrapped cookie and uses the wrapped cookie to look up the cookie for the alternate web page e.g. by applying an algorithm or function such as a function based upon base64 to the wrapped cookie to derive or reconstruct the cookie for the alternate webpage . As noted above the algorithm or function used to reconstruct or unwrap the cookie may be a decryption function that reverses encryption that was previously applied to the cookie during the initial wrapping procedure.

The MOD forwards the request for the given web page to the target server associated with the given web page without the wrapped cookie because the wrapped cookie would not be recognized by the target server . After optionally performing one or more intervening redirects e.g. as in of the target server or another server associated with a preceding intervening redirect responds to the request with a redirect to an alternate web page such as a mobile version of the given web page e.g. www.edition.cnn.com . At this point the MOD knows the cookie for the alternate web page based on the look up operation from . Accordingly the MOD requests the alternate web page from the associated target server while providing the cookie for the alternate web page e.g. Cookie edition.cnn.com . While not shown explicitly in providing the cookie with the request of permits among other things page content for the alternate web page to be loaded in a selective manner for the client device. Accordingly the target server responds to the MOD s request for the alternate web page with a 200 OK message and the requested content for the alternate web page . At this point through of substantially correspond to through of except that inclusion of the cookie for the alternate web page is optional because the target server was provided this cookie and thereby knows that the requesting client device already has the cookie and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Generally the processes of is similar to the process of except that in relate to a scenario where the target web resource to be retrieved does not necessarily need to be a web page although this is certainly possible . A specific example is shown in whereby the mobile web browser is attempting to retrieve an image file at the URL of www.cnn.com image1.jpeg whereby the mobile web browser ultimately receives the image file at the URL of www.edition.cnn.com image1.mpeg based on the aforementioned redirect procedure being simulated locally at the mobile web browser by the POD . In the cookies are for the web pages www.cnn.com and www.edition.cnn.com whereas the cookies in are more specifically for the web resources of www.cnn.com image1.jpeg e.g. cnn.com in and www.edition.cnn.com image1.jpeg. Accordingly except for the distinction between web pages and web resources discussed above through of substantially correspond to through of respectively and through of substantially correspond to through of respectively and as such will not be discussed in further detail for the sake of brevity.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

