---

title: Carbocyclic- and heterocyclic-substituted hexahydropyrano[3,4-d][1,3]thiazin-2-amine compounds
abstract: 

wherein the variables R, R, Rand b are as defined in the specification. Corresponding pharmaceutical compositions, methods of treatment, methods of synthesis, and intermediates are also disclosed.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09403846&OS=09403846&RS=09403846
owner: Pfizer Inc.
number: 09403846
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131204
---
This application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT IB2013 060633 filed on Dec. 4 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 739 053 filed on Dec. 19 2012 the disclosures of which is hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to small molecule compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof that are inhibitors of site amyloid precursor protein APP Cleaving Enzyme 1 BACE1 and inhibitors of BACE2. This invention relates to inhibiting the production of A beta peptides that can contribute to the formation of neurological deposits of amyloid protein. The present invention also relates to the treatment of Alzheimer s Disease AD and other neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders as well as the treatment of diabetes in mammals including humans. More particularly this invention relates to thioamidine compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof useful for the treatment of neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders such as AD and Down s Syndrome related to A beta peptide production.

Dementia results from a wide variety of distinctive pathological processes. The most common pathological processes causing dementia are Alzheimer s disease AD cerebral amyloid angiopathy CM and prion mediated diseases see e.g. Haan et al. Clin. Neurol. Neurosurg. 1990 92 4 305 310 Glenner et al. J. Neurol. Sci. 1989 94 1 28 . AD is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by memory impairment and cognitive dysfunction. AD affects nearly half of all people past the age of 85 the most rapidly growing portion of the United States population. As such the number of AD patients in the United States is expected to increase from about 4 million to about 14 million by 2050.

The accumulation of amyloid A peptides is believed to be one of the underlying causes of Alzheimer s Disease AD which is the most common cause of cognitive decline in the elderly Hardy Allsop Trends Pharmacol Sci 1991 12 10 383 8 Selkoe Behav Brain Res 2008 192 1 106 13 . A the major protein constituent of amyloid plaques is derived from sequential cleavage of amyloid precursor protein APP a type I integral membrane protein by two proteases and secretase. Proteolytic cleavage of APP by the site APP cleaving enzymes BACE1 and BACE2 generates a soluble N terminal ectodomain of APP sAPP and the C terminal fragment C99. Subsequent cleavage of the membrane bound C99 fragment by the secretase liberates the various A peptide species of which A 40 and A 42 are the most predominant forms Vassar et al. J Neurosci 2009 29 41 12787 94 Marks Berg Neurochem Res 2010 35 181 210 . Therefore limiting the generation of A directly through inhibition of BACE1 is one of the most attractive approaches for the treatment of AD as BACE1 inhibitors could effectively inhibit the formation of all predominant A peptides.

In addition it has been determined that BACE1 knock out mice had markedly enhanced clearance of axonal and myelin debris from degenerated fibers accelerated axonal regeneration and earlier reinnervation of neuromuscular junctions compared with littermate controls. These data suggest BACE1 inhibition as a therapeutic approach to accelerate regeneration and recovery after peripheral nerve damage. See Farah et al. J. Neurosci. 2011 31 15 5744 5754 .

Insulin resistance and impaired glucose homoeostasis are important indicators of Type 2 diabetes and are early risk factors of AD. In particular there is a higher risk of sporadic AD in patients with Type 2 diabetes and AD patients are more prone to Type 2 diabetes Butler Diabetes 53 474 481 2004. . Recently it has also been proposed that AD should be reconsidered as Type 3 Diabetes de la Monte J Diabetes Sci Technol 2008 2 6 1101 1113 . Of special interest is the fact that AD and Type 2 diabetes share common pathogenic mechanisms and possibly treatments Park S A J Clin Neurol 2011 7 10 18 Raffa Br J Clin Pharmacol 2011 71 3 365 376 . Elevated plasma levels of A the product of BACE activities were recently associated with hyperglycemia and obesity in humans see Meakin et al. Biochem J. 2012 441 1 285 96 Martins Journal of Alzheimer s Disease 8 2005 269 282 . Moreover increased A production prompts the onset of glucose intolerance and insulin resistance in mice C zar Castellano Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 302 E1373 E1380 2012 Delibegovic Diabetologia 2011 54 2143 2151 . Finally it is also suggested that circulating A could participate in the development of atherosclerosis in both humans and mice De Meyer Atherosclerosis 216 2011 54 58 Catapano Atherosclerosis 210 2010 78 87 Roher Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1812 2011 1508 1514 .

Therefore it is believed that BACE1 levels may play a critical role in glucose and lipid homoeostasis in conditions of chronic nutrient excess. Specifically BACE1 inhibitors may be potentially useful for increasing insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle and liver as illustrated by the fact that reduction in BACE1 decreases body weight protects against diet induced obesity and enhances insulin sensitivity in mice see Meakin et al. Biochem J. 2012 441 1 285 96 . Of equal interest is the identification of LRP1 as a BACE1 substrate and the potential link to atherosclerosis Strickland Physiol Rev 88 887 918 2008 Hyman J. Biol. Chem. Vol. 280 No. 18 17777 17785 2005 .

Likewise inhibition of BACE2 is proposed as a treatment of Type 2 diabetes with the potential to preserve and restore cell mass and stimulate insulin secretion in pre diabetic and diabetic patients WO2011 020806 . BACE2 is a cell enriched protease that regulates pancreatic cell function and mass and is a close homologue of BACE1. Pharmacological inhibition of BACE2 increases cell mass and function leading to the stabilization of Tmem27. See Esterhazy et al. Cell Metabolism 2011 14 3 365 377 . It is suggested that BACE2 inhibitors are useful in the treatment and or prevention of diseases associated with the inhibition of BACE2 WO2011 020806 .

Aminodihydrothiazine or thioamidine compounds are described in WO 2009 091016 and WO 2010 038686 as useful inhibitors of the secretase enzyme. Co pending PCT application PCT IB2012 054198 filed by Pfizer Inc on Aug. 17 2012 also describes aminodihydrothiazine compounds that are useful inhibitors of the secretase enzyme. The present invention is directed to novel thioamidine compounds and their use in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases including AD as well as the treatment of metabolic diseases and conditions such as diabetes and obesity.

Ris C R R C C cycloalkyl or C R R 4 to 10 membered heterocycloalkyl having one to three heteroatoms independently selected from N O or S wherein said N is optionally substituted with R and wherein each available carbon position of said C C cycloalkyl moiety or said 4 to 10 membered heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to two R 

Rand Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or C C alkyl wherein said C C alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three fluoro 

Ris selected from C C alkyl C C alkylcarbonyl C C cycloalkylcarbonyl or C C alkylcarbonyl C C alkyl wherein said C C alkyl moiety said C C alkylcarbonyl moiety and said C C alkylcarbonyl C C alkyl moiety are optionally substituted with one to three fluoro 

Rat each occurrence is independently halogen C C alkyl and C C alkoxy wherein said C C alkyl moiety and said C C alkoxy are optionally substituted with one to three fluoro 

Rat each occurrence is independently halogen OH CN C C alkyl and C C alkoxy wherein said C C alkyl or C C alkoxy is optionally substituted with one to three fluoro 

The present invention is further directed to compounds of formula I or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer wherein the compound is selected from 

The present invention is also directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising compounds of formula I or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer or a solvate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient e.g. vehicle diluent or carrier. The pharmaceutical composition described herein can be administered in a therapeutically effective amount to a mammal including a human in need thereof for any or all of the following 

 1 inhibiting production of amyloid protein and for inhibiting beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 

 3 inhibiting BACE1 and or BACE2 activity for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of diseases and disorders characterized by elevated amyloid levels including diabetes or type 2 diabetes 

The present invention is also directed to the compound of formula I or tautomer thereof or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer wherein the compound is selected from the compounds described in Examples 1 16 and 19 21.

The present invention is also directed to methods of inhibiting BACE2 enzyme activity by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a thioamidine compound of any of the embodiments of formula I or tautomer thereof or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient to a mammal or a patient in need thereof.

The present invention is further directed to methods for treating conditions or diseases of the central nervous system and neurological disorders in which the secretase enzyme is involved such as migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease brain injury stroke cerebrovascular diseases including cerebral arteriosclerosis cerebral amyloid angiopathy hereditary cerebral hemorrhage and brain hypoxia ischemia cognitive disorders including amnesia senile dementia HIV associated dementia Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease Lewy body dementia vascular dementia drug related dementia tardive dyskinesia myoclonus dystonia delirium Pick s disease Creutzfeldt Jacob disease HIV disease Gilles de la Tourette s syndrome epilepsy muscular spasms and disorders associated with muscular spasticity or weakness including tremors and mild cognitive impairment MCI mental deficiency including spasticity Down syndrome and fragile X syndrome sleep disorders including hypersomnia circadian rhythm sleep disorder insomnia parasomnia and sleep deprivation and psychiatric disorders such as anxiety including acute stress disorder generalized anxiety disorder social anxiety disorder panic disorder post traumatic stress disorder agoraphobia and obsessive compulsive disorder factitious disorder including acute hallucinatory mania impulse control disorders including compulsive gambling and intermittent explosive disorder mood disorders including bipolar I disorder bipolar II disorder mania mixed affective state major depression chronic depression seasonal depression psychotic depression seasonal depression premenstrual syndrome PMS premenstrual dysphoric disorder PDD and postpartum depression psychomotor disorder psychotic disorders including schizophrenia schizoaffective disorder schizophreniform and delusional disorder drug dependence including narcotic dependence alcoholism amphetamine dependence cocaine addiction nicotine dependence and drug withdrawal syndrome eating disorders including anorexia bulimia binge eating disorder hyperphagia obesity compulsive eating disorders and pagophagia sexual dysfunction disorders urinary incontinence neuronal damage disorders including ocular damage retinopathy or macular degeneration of the eye tinnitus hearing impairment and loss and brain edema nerve injury treatment including accelerating regeneration and recovery after peripheral nerve damage and pediatric psychiatric disorders including attention deficit disorder attention deficit hyperactive disorder conduct disorder and autism in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The compounds of formula I may also be useful for improving memory both short term and long term and learning ability. The text revision of the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM IV TR 2000 American Psychiatric Association Washington D.C. provides a diagnostic tool for identifying many of the disorders described herein. The skilled artisan will recognize that there are alternative nomenclatures nosologies and classification systems for disorders described herein including those as described in the DMS IV TR and that terminology and classification systems evolve with medical scientific progress.

 1 Methods for treating a neurological disorder such as migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Niemann Pick type C brain injury stroke cerebrovascular disease cognitive disorder sleep disorder or a psychiatric disorder such as anxiety factitious disorder impulse control disorder mood disorder psychomotor disorder psychotic disorder drug dependence eating disorder and pediatric psychiatric disorder in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

 2 Methods for the treatment e.g. delaying the progression or onset of diabetes or diabetes related disorders including Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes impaired glucose tolerance insulin resistance hyperglycemia and diabetic complications such as atherosclerosis coronary heart disease stroke peripheral vascular disease nephropathy hypertension neuropathy and retinopathy 

 3 Methods for the treatment of obesity co morbidities such as metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome includes diseases conditions or disorders such as dyslipidemia hypertension insulin resistance diabetes e.g. Type 2 diabetes coronary artery disease and heart failure. For more detailed information on metabolic syndrome see e.g. Zimmet P. Z. et al. The Metabolic Syndrome Perhaps an Etiologic Mystery but Far From a Myth Where Does the International Diabetes Federation Stand Medscape Diabetes Endocrinology 7 2 2005 and Alberti K. G. et al. The Metabolic Syndrome A New Worldwide Definition 366 1059 62 2005 

 4 Methods for the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD and hepatic insulin resistance and

 5 Combination therapies wherein the compounds of this invention may also be used in conjunction with other pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of the diseases conditions and or disorders described herein. Therefore methods of treatment that include administering compounds of the present invention in combination with other pharmaceutical agents are also provided.

As used herein eating disorders refer to illnesses in which the patient suffers disturbances in his her eating behaviors and related thoughts and emotions. Representative examples of obesity related eating disorders include overeating bulimia binge eating disorder compulsive dieting nocturnal sleep related eating disorder pica Prader Willi syndrome and night eating syndrome.

Other features and advantages of this invention will be apparent from this specification and the appendent claims which describe the invention.

The headings within this document are only being utilized to expedite its review by the reader. They should not be construed as limiting the invention or claims in any manner.

As used throughout this application including the claims the following terms have the meanings defined below unless specifically indicated otherwise. The plural and singular should be treated as interchangeable other than the indication of number 

The term C C alkyl refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl propyl including n propyl and isopropyl butyl including n butyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl n pentyl isopentyl neopentyl and n hexyl.

The term C C alkyl refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl and propyl including n propyl and isopropyl and the like.

The term C C alkoxy as used herein means a C C alkyl group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom. Examples include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy and n propoxy isopropoxy butoxy sec butoxy tert butoxy pentyloxy hexyloxy and the like.

The term C C alkylcarbonyl as used herein means a C C alkyl group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through a carbonyl group as defined herein. Representative examples of C C alkylcarbonyl include but are not limited to acetyl 1 oxopropyl 2 2 dimethyl 1 oxopropyl 1 oxobutyl and 1 oxopentyl and the like.

The term C C alkylcarbonyl C C alkyl as used herein means a C C alkylcarbonyl group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through a C C alkyl group as defined herein. Representative examples of C1 C6 alkylcarbonyl C C alkyl include but are not limited to 2 oxopropyl 3 3 dimethyl 2 oxopropyl 3 oxobutyl and 3 oxopentyl.

The term C C cycloalkyl refers to a saturated or partially saturated monocyclic bicyclic bridged bicyclic or tricyclic alkyl radical wherein each cyclic moiety has 3 to 6 carbon atoms. Examples include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and the like.

The term 4 to 10 membered heterocycloalkyl refers to a substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated or partially saturated ring structure containing a total of 4 to 10 ring atoms wherein at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom selected from oxygen nitrogen or sulfur. A heterocycloalkyl alternatively may comprise 2 or 3 rings fused together wherein at least one such ring contains a heteroatom as a ring atom i.e. nitrogen oxygen or sulfur . In a group that has a heterocycloalkyl substituent the ring atom of the heterocycloalkyl substituent that is bound to the group may be the at least one heteroatom when the heteroatom is nitrogen or it may be a ring carbon atom where the ring carbon atom may be in the same ring as the at least one heteroatom or where the ring carbon atom may be in a different ring from the at least one heteroatom. Similarly if the heterocycloalkyl substituent is in turn substituted with a group or substituent the group or substituent may be bound to the at least one heteroatom when the heteroatom is nitrogen or it may be bound to a ring carbon atom where the ring carbon atom may be in the same ring as the at least one heteroatom or where the ring carbon atom may be in a different ring from the at least one heteroatom. Non limiting examples of heterocycloalkyls include but are not limited to azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl azepinyl piperazinyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridinyl oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyclo 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl quinolizinyl quinuclidinyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.4 nonyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.3 octyl and 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.2 heptyl.

The term hydroxy or hydroxyl refers to OH. When used in combination with another term s the prefix hydroxy indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more hydroxy substituents. Compounds bearing a carbon to which one or more hydroxy substituents include for example alcohols enols and phenol.

The term halo or halogen refers to fluorine which may be depicted as F chlorine which may be depicted as Cl bromine which may be depicted as Br or iodine which may be depicted as I .

The term methoxy refers to a substituent consisting of a methyl group bound to an oxygen and may be depicted as OCH.

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted the substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted. If a carbon of a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with one or more of a list of substituents one or more of the hydrogens on the carbon to the extent there are any may separately and or together be replaced with an independently selected optional substituent. If a nitrogen of a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with one or more of a list of substituents one or more of the hydrogens on the nitrogen to the extent there are any may each be replaced with an independently selected optional substituent.

If substituents are described as being independently selected from a group each instance of a substituent is selected independent of the other. Each substituent therefore may be identical to or different from the other substituent s .

As used herein the terms formula I formula Ia formula Ib formula Ic and formula Id may be hereinafter referred to as a compound s of the invention. Such terms are also defined to include all forms of the compound of formulas I Ia Ib Ic and Id including hydrates solvates isomers crystalline and non crystalline forms isomorphs polymorphs and metabolites thereof. For example the compounds of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may exist in unsolvated and solvated forms. When the solvent or water is tightly bound the complex will have a well defined stoichiometry independent of humidity. When however the solvent or water is weakly bound as in channel solvates and hygroscopic compounds the water solvent content will be dependent on humidity and drying conditions. In such cases non stoichiometry will be the norm.

The compounds of the invention may exist as clathrates or other complexes. Included within the scope of the invention are complexes such as clathrates drug host inclusion complexes wherein the drug and host are present in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. Also included are complexes of the compounds of the invention containing two or more organic and or inorganic components which may be in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. The resulting complexes may be ionized partially ionized or non ionized. For a review of such complexes see J. Pharm. Sci. 64 8 1269 1288 by Haleblian August 1975 .

The compounds of the invention have asymmetric carbon atoms. The carbon carbon bonds of the compounds of the invention may be depicted herein using a solid line a solid wedge or a dotted wedge . The use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers e.g. specific enantiomers racemic mixtures etc. at that carbon atom are included. The use of either a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that the stereoisomer shown is present. When present in racemic compounds solid and dotted wedges are used to define relative stereochemistry rather than absolute stereochemistry. Racemic compounds possessing such indicated relative stereochemistry are marked with . For example unless stated otherwise it is intended that the compounds of the invention can exist as stereoisomers which include cis and trans isomers optical isomers such as R and S enantiomers diastereomers geometric isomers rotational isomers conformational isomers and mixtures thereof such as racemates and diastereomeric pairs . The compounds of the invention may exhibit more than one type of isomerism. Also included are acid addition or base addition salts wherein the counterion is optically active for example D lactate or L lysine or racemic for example DL tartrate or DL arginine.

When any racemate crystallizes crystals of two different types are possible. The first type is the racemic compound true racemate referred to above wherein one homogeneous form of crystal is produced containing both enantiomers in equimolar amounts. The second type is the racemic mixture or conglomerate wherein two forms of crystal are produced in equimolar amounts each comprising a single enantiomer.

The compounds of the invention may exhibit the phenomenon of tautomerism and are regarded as compounds of the invention. For example the compounds of the invention may exist in several tautomeric forms including the 2 amino dihydrothiazine form Ia and the 2 imino tetrahydrothiazine form Ib. All such tautomeric forms and mixtures thereof are included within the scope of compounds of the invention. Tautomers exist as mixtures of a tautomeric set in solution. In solid form usually one tautomer predominates. Even though one tautomer may be described the present invention includes all tautomers of the compounds of the invention and salts thereof. Examples of tautomers are described by the compounds of formula Ia and Ib and collectively and generically are referred to as compounds of formula I.

The compounds of this invention may be used in the form of salts derived from inorganic or organic acids. Depending on the particular compound a salt of the compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s physical properties such as enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or oil. In some instances a salt of a compound also may be used as an aid in the isolation purification and or resolution of the compound.

Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being used in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt prepared by combining a compound of formula I with an acid whose anion or a base whose cation is generally considered suitable for human consumption. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are particularly useful as products of the methods of the present invention because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of the present invention when possible include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic hydrofluoric boric fluoroboric phosphoric metaphosphoric nitric carbonic sulfonic and sulfuric acids and organic acids such as acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glycolic isothionic lactic lactobionic maleic malic methanesulfonic trifluoromethanesulfonic succinic toluenesulfonic tartaric and trifluoroacetic acids. Suitable organic acids generally include but are not limited to aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids.

Specific examples of suitable organic acids include but are not limited to acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartrate citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilate stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate toluenesulfonate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sufanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate algenic acid hydroxybutyric acid galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate 2 naphthalenesulfonate oxalate palmoate pectinate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate and undecanoate.

Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may include alkali metal salts e.g. sodium or potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium or magnesium salts and salts formed with suitable organic ligands e.g. quaternary ammonium salts. In another embodiment base salts are formed from bases which form non toxic salts including aluminum arginine benzathine choline diethylamine diolamine glycine lysine meglumine olamine tromethamine and zinc salts.

Organic salts may be made from secondary tertiary or quaternary amine salts such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups may be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl C C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

In one embodiment hemisalts of acids and bases may also be formed for example hemisulphate and hemicalcium salts.

Also within the scope of the present invention are so called prodrugs of the compound of the invention. Thus certain derivatives of the compound of the invention which may have little or no pharmacological activity themselves can when administered into or onto the body be converted into the compound of the invention having the desired activity for example by hydrolytic cleavage. Such derivatives are referred to as prodrugs. Further information on the use of prodrugs may be found in Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol. 14 ACS Symposium Series T. Higuchi and W. Stella and Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Pergamon Press 1987 ed. E. B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association . Prodrugs in accordance with the invention can for example be produced by replacing appropriate functionalities present in the compounds of any of formula I with certain moieties known to those skilled in the art as pro moieties as described for example in Design of Prodrugs by H Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 .

The present invention also includes isotopically labeled compounds which are identical to those recited in formula I but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the present invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N O O P S F and Cl respectively. Compounds of the present invention prodrugs thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds or of said prodrugs that contain the aforementioned isotopes and or other isotopes of other atoms are within the scope of this invention. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H and C are incorporated are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are particularly preferred for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H can afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Isotopically labeled compounds of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples and Preparations below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

To further elucidate the compounds of the present invention the following subgenuses are described below.

Formula Ic depicted below is a subset of formula I as depicted wherein the phenyl ring contains fluorine atoms at the 2 and 4 positions and an Rsubstituent at the 6 position of the phenyl ring wherein Ris selected from hydrogen fluoro or C C alkyl.

In certain embodiments of formula Ic Ris hydrogen CH CHF or CHOCHand Ris C R R C C cycloalkyl or C R R 4 to 5 membered heterocycloalkyl having one to two heteroatoms selected from N O or S wherein said N is optionally substituted with R and Ris C C alkyl wherein said C C cycloalkyl moiety or said 4 to 10 membered heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three R wherein Ris C C alkyl and Ris hydrogen. In certain embodiments Ris hydrogen.

In certain embodiments of formula Ic Ris hydrogen Ris C C cycloalkyl wherein said cycloalkyl is cyclopropyl optionally substituted with one R wherein Ris methyl and Ris hydrogen. In certain embodiments Ris methyl. In certain embodiments Ris methoxymethyl. In certain embodiments Ris fluoromethyl. In certain embodiments of formula Ic Ris 2 methylcyclopropyl. In certain embodiments of formula Ic Ris cyclopropylmethyl.

In certain other embodiments Ris hydrogen Ris a 4 to 5 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein said heterocycloalkyl is tetrahydrofuranyl and Ris hydrogen. In certain embodiments said heterocycloalkyl is 5 5 dimethyltetrahydrofuranyl. In certain embodiments said heterocycloalkyl is oxetanyl.

Formula Id depicted below is a subset of formula I wherein the phenyl ring contains a fluoro at the 2 position and an optional Rsubstituent at the 3 4 5 or 6 position of the phenyl ring.

In certain embodiments of formula Id b is 1 Ris fluoro attached to the 3 5 or 6 position of the phenyl ring Ris hydrogen and Ris C R R C C cycloalkyl or C R R 4 to 5 membered heterocycloalkyl having at least one to two heteroatoms selected from N O or S wherein said N is optionally substituted with R and Ris C C alkyl wherein said C C cycloalkyl moiety or said 4 to 5 membered heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with one to three R and Ris C C alkyl. In certain embodiments of formula Id Ris cyclopropyl. In certain embodiments of formula Id wherein Ris fluoro said fluoro is attached at the 5 position of the phenyl ring. In another embodiment wherein Ris fluoro said fluoro is attached at the 6 position of the phenyl ring. In certain other embodiments Ris methyl attached at the 4 position of the phenyl ring.

Typically a compound of the invention is administered in an amount effective to treat a condition as described herein. The compounds of the invention are administered by any suitable route in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. Therapeutically effective doses of the compounds required to treat the condition are readily ascertained by one of ordinary skill in the art using preclinical and clinical approaches familiar to the medicinal arts.

The term treating as used herein unless otherwise indicated means reversing alleviating inhibiting the progress of or preventing the disorder or condition to which such term applies or one or more symptoms of such disorder or condition. The term treatment as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to the act of treating as treating is defined immediately above. The term treating also includes adjuvant and neo adjuvant treatment of a subject.

The compounds of the invention may be administered orally. Oral administration may involve swallowing so that the compound enters the gastrointestinal tract or buccal or sublingual administration may be employed by which the compound enters the blood stream directly from the mouth.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly into the blood stream into muscle or into an internal organ. Suitable means for parenteral administration include intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal intrathecal intraventricular intraurethral intrasternal intracranial intramuscular and subcutaneous. Suitable devices for parenteral administration include needle including microneedle injectors needle free injectors and infusion techniques.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered topically to the skin or mucosa that is dermally or transdermally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention can also be administered intranasally or by inhalation. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may be administered rectally or vaginally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly to the eye or ear.

The dosage regimen for the compounds and or compositions containing the compounds is based on a variety of factors including the type age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition the route of administration and the activity of the particular compound employed. Thus the dosage regimen may vary widely. Dosage levels of the order from about 0.01 mg to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day are useful in the treatment of the above indicated conditions. In one embodiment the total daily dose of a compound of the invention administered in single or divided doses is typically from about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg. In another embodiment total daily dose of the compound of the invention is from about 0.1 to about 50 mg kg and in another embodiment from about 0.5 to about 30 mg kg i.e. mg compound of the invention per kg body weight . In one embodiment dosing is from 0.01 to 10 mg kg day. In another embodiment dosing is from 0.1 to 1.0 mg kg day. Dosage unit compositions may contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. In many instances the administration of the compound will be repeated a plurality of times in a day typically no greater than 4 times . Multiple doses per day typically may be used to increase the total daily dose if desired.

For oral administration the compositions may be provided in the form of tablets containing from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient or in another embodiment from about 1 mg to about 100 mg of active ingredient. Intravenously doses may range from about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg minute during a constant rate infusion.

Suitable subjects according to the present invention include mammalian subjects. Mammals according to the present invention include but are not limited to canine feline bovine caprine equine ovine porcine rodents lagomorphs primates and the like and encompass mammals in utero. In one embodiment humans are suitable subjects. Human subjects may be of either gender and at any stage of development.

In another embodiment the invention comprises the use of one or more compounds of the invention for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the conditions recited herein.

For the treatment of the conditions referred to above the compound of the invention can be administered as compound per se. Alternatively pharmaceutically acceptable salts are suitable for medical applications because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises pharmaceutical compositions. Such pharmaceutical compositions comprise a compound of the invention presented with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient s . The excipinet can be a solid a liquid or both and may be formulated with the compound as a unit dose composition for example a tablet which can contain from 0.05 to 95 by weight of the active compounds. A compound of the invention may be coupled with suitable polymers as targetable drug excipients. Other pharmacologically active substances can also be present.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered by any suitable route preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. The active compounds and compositions for example may be administered orally rectally parenterally or topically.

Oral administration of a solid dose form may be for example presented in discrete units such as hard or soft capsules pills cachets lozenges or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of at least one compound of the present invention. In another embodiment the oral administration may be in a powder or granule form. In another embodiment the oral dose form is sub lingual such as for example a lozenge. In such solid dosage forms the compounds of the invention are ordinarily combined with one or more adjuvants. Such capsules or tablets may contain a controlled release formulation. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms also may comprise buffering agents or may be prepared with enteric coatings.

In another embodiment oral administration may be in a liquid dose form. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include for example pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art e.g. water . Such compositions also may comprise adjuvants such as wetting emulsifying suspending flavoring e.g. sweetening and or perfuming agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a parenteral dose form. Parenteral administration includes for example subcutaneous injections intravenous injections intraperitoneal injections intramuscular injections intrasternal injections and infusion. Injectable preparations e.g. sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing wetting agents and or suspending agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a topical dose form. Topical administration includes for example transdermal administration such as via transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices intraocular administration or intranasal or inhalation administration. Compositions for topical administration also include for example topical gels sprays ointments and creams. A topical formulation may include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. When the compounds of this invention are administered by a transdermal device administration will be accomplished using a patch either of the reservoir and porous membrane type or of a solid matrix variety. Typical formulations for this purpose include gels hydrogels lotions solutions creams ointments dusting powders dressings foams films skin patches wafers implants sponges fibres bandages and microemulsions. Liposomes may also be used. Typical carriers include alcohol water mineral oil liquid petrolatum white petrolatum glycerin polyethylene glycol and propylene glycol. Penetration enhancers may be incorporated see for example J. Pharm. Sci. 88 10 955 958 by Finnin and Morgan October 1999 .

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye include for example eye drops wherein the compound of this invention is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier. A typical formulation suitable for ocular or aural administration may be in the form of drops of a micronized suspension or solution in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline. Other formulations suitable for ocular and aural administration include ointments biodegradable e.g. absorbable gel sponges collagen and non biodegradable e.g. silicone implants wafers lenses and particulate or vesicular systems such as niosomes or liposomes. A polymer such as cross linked polyacrylic acid polyvinyl alcohol hyaluronic acid a cellulosic polymer for example hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose or methyl cellulose or a heteropolysaccharide polymer for example gelan gum may be incorporated together with a preservative such as benzalkonium chloride. Such formulations may also be delivered by iontophoresis.

For intranasal administration or administration by inhalation the active compounds of the invention are conveniently delivered in the form of a solution or suspension from a pump spray container that is squeezed or pumped by the patient or as an aerosol spray presentation from a pressurized container or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant. Formulations suitable for intranasal administration are typically administered in the form of a dry powder either alone as a mixture for example in a dry blend with lactose or as a mixed component particle for example mixed with phospholipids such as phosphatidylcholine from a dry powder inhaler or as an aerosol spray from a pressurized container pump spray atomizer preferably an atomizer using electrohydrodynamics to produce a fine mist or nebulizer with or without the use of a suitable propellant such as 1 1 1 2 tetrafluoroethane or 1 1 1 2 3 3 3 heptafluoropropane. For intranasal use the powder may comprise a bioadhesive agent for example chitosan or cyclodextrin.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a rectal dose form. Such rectal dose form may be in the form of for example a suppository. Cocoa butter is a traditional suppository base but various alternatives may be used as appropriate.

Other carrier materials and modes of administration known in the pharmaceutical art may also be used. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by any of the well known techniques of pharmacy such as effective formulation and administration procedures. The above considerations in regard to effective formulations and administration procedures are well known in the art and are described in standard textbooks. Formulation of drugs is discussed in for example Hoover John E. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1975 Liberman et al. Eds. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Marcel Decker New York N.Y. 1980 and Kibbe et al. Eds. Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Ed. American Pharmaceutical Association Washington 1999.

The compounds of the present invention can be used alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents in the treatment of various conditions or disease states. The compound s of the present invention and other therapeutic agent s may be administered simultaneously either in the same dosage form or in separate dosage forms or sequentially.

Two or more compounds may be administered simultaneously concurrently or sequentially. Additionally simultaneous administration may be carried out by mixing the compounds prior to administration or by administering the compounds at the same point in time but at different anatomic sites or using different routes of administration.

The phrases concurrent administration co administration simultaneous administration and administered simultaneously mean that the compounds are administered in combination.

The present invention includes the use of a combination of a BACE inhibitor compound as provided in the present invention and one or more additional pharmaceutically active agent s . If a combination of active agents is administered then they may be administered sequentially or simultaneously in separate dosage forms or combined in a single dosage form. Accordingly the present invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising an amount of a a first agent comprising a compound of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound or tautomer b a second pharmaceutically active agent and c a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle or diluent.

The compounds of this invention may also be used in conjunction with other pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of the diseases conditions and or disorders described herein. Therefore methods of treatment that include administering compounds of the present invention in combination with other pharmaceutical agents are also provided. Suitable pharmaceutical agents that may be used in combination with the compounds of the present invention include without limitation 

The present invention further comprises kits that are suitable for use in performing the methods of treatment described above. In one embodiment the kit contains a first dosage form comprising one or more of the compounds of the present invention and a container for the dosage in quantities sufficient to carry out the methods of the present invention.

In another embodiment the kit of the present invention comprises one or more compounds of the invention.

The compounds of the present invention may be prepared by the methods described below together with synthetic methods known in the art of organic chemistry or modifications and transformations that are familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art. The starting materials used herein are commercially available or may be prepared by routine methods known in the art such as those methods disclosed in standard reference books such as the Vol. I XII published by Wiley Interscience . Preferred methods include but are not limited to those described below.

During any of the following synthetic sequences it may be necessary and or desirable to protect sensitive or reactive groups on any of the molecules concerned. This can be achieved by means of conventional protecting groups such as those described in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1981 T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1991 and T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1999 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Compounds of the invention or tautomers thereof or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds or tautomers can be prepared according to the reaction Schemes discussed herein below. Unless otherwise indicated the substituents in the Schemes are defined as above. Isolation and purification of the products is accomplished by standard procedures which are known to a chemist of ordinary skill.

One skilled in the art will recognize that in many cases the compounds in Schemes 1 through 10 will be generated as a mixture of diastereomers and or enantiomers these may be separated at various stages of the synthetic schemes using conventional techniques or a combination of such techniques such as but not limited to crystallization normal phase chromatography reversed phase chromatography and chiral chromatography to afford the single enantiomers of the invention.

It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the various symbols superscripts and subscripts used in the schemes methods and examples are used for convenience of representation and or to reflect the order in which they are introduced in the schemes and are not intended to necessarily correspond to the symbols superscripts or subscripts in the appended claims. The schemes are representative of methods useful in synthesizing the compounds of the present invention. They are not to constrain the scope of the invention in any way.

Scheme 1 refers to the preparation of compounds of formula I. Referring to Scheme 1 the compound of formula I can be prepared from the compound of formula II through a removal of protecting group P. Pin this case refers to groups well known to those skilled in the art for amine protection. For example Pmay be a benzoyl group Bz which can be cleaved via acidic conditions or through treatment with 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU in methanol. Alternatively Pmay be one of many protecting group suitable for amines including 9 fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl Fmoc or tert butoxycarbonyl BOC and can be cleaved under standard conditions known to one skilled in the art.

Scheme 2 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Boc. Isoxazolidines of formula III are subjected to reducing conditions for instance zinc in acetic acid affording compounds of formula IV. The resulting amino alcohols are treated with an isothiocyanate for instance benzoyl isothiocyanate to provide thioureas of formula V. Cyclization is induced using strong acid including for instance sulfuric acid or alternatively standard Mitsunobu conditions to give compounds of formula II. Compound II can be converted into a compound of formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 3 refers to the preparation of compound III. Homoallylic alcohol VI is alkylated with 2 bromo 1 1 dimethoxyethane under basic conditions such as treatment with potassium hydride to provide the corresponding ether VII. The acetal is cleaved under acidic conditions aqueous HCl as an example to give aldehyde VIII. Condensation with a hydroxylamine salt such as hydroxylamine sulfate provides a geometric mixture of the corresponding oxime IX. Cycloaddition to form isoxazoline X may be carried out by treatment of oxime IX with an oxidizing agent such as sodium hypochlorite or N chlorosuccinimide. Reaction of isoxazoline X with an appropriate arylmetallic reagent for instance an aryllithium such as 2 4 difluorophenyllithium or the corresponding aryl Grignard reagent at low temperature e.g. 78 C. yields compounds of formula III. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the stereochemistry of addition of the arylmetallic reagent is determined by the stereochemistry of the adjacent methine center yielding a racemic mixture of cis fused diastereomers which can be converted into compounds of formula I according to the methods of Schemes 2 and 1.

Scheme 4 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz and Ris an oxetane. Treatment of compounds of formula XI with appropriate ylide generating conditions for instance the combination of trimethylsulfoxonium iodide and sodium hydride provides epoxides of formula XII. A second iteration of appropriate ylide generating conditions for instance the combination of trimethylsulfoxonium iodide and sodium hydride provides compounds of formula II wherein Ris an oxetane. Compound II can be converted into a compound of formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 5 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz and Ris a tetrahydrofuran. Treatment of compounds of formula XI with an appropriate alkylmagnesium reagent for instance 3 tert butyl dimethyl silyl oxypropyl magnesium bromide provides secondary alcohols of formula XIII wherein Pis tert butyldimethylsilyl TBS . Deprotection of Pusing standard desilylative conditions for instance tetrabutylammonium fluoride TBAF in THF provides diols of formula XIV. Diol XIV can be closed to compounds of formula II via activation of the primary alcohol for instance via the use of trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride and 2 6 dimethylpyridine in dichloromethane at 78 C. and allowing the reaction to warm to 0 C. over 30 minutes. Compound II can be converted into a compound of formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 6 refers to the preparation of compounds XI wherein Pis Bz. Isoxazolidines of formula XV which may be obtained via the chemistry depicted in Scheme 3 utilizing a benzyloxymethyl group in place of R are subjected to reducing conditions for instance zinc in acetic acid affording compounds of formula XVI. The amino alcohols XVI are treated with an isothiocyanate for instance benzoyl isothiocyanate to provide thioureas of formula XVII. Cyclization is induced using strong acid including for instance sulfuric acid or alternatively standard Mitsunobu conditions to give compounds of formula XVIII. Cleavage of the benzyl ether under standard conditions for instance using boron trichloride provides alcohols of formula XIX. The oxidation of compounds of formula XIX can be effected by a number of standard oxidation protocols for instance using Dess Martin periodinane or sulfur trioxide pyridine with DMSO Parikh Doering conditions . Compound XI can be converted into a compound of formula II according to the methods of Schemes 4 or 5.

Scheme 7 refers to the preparation of compounds III wherein Ris CHF or CHOCH. Isoxazolidines of formula XX are subjected to suitable conditions to introduce the respective group for instance sodium hydride followed by methyl iodide affording compounds of formula XXI. Reaction of isoxazoline XXI with an appropriate arylmetallic reagent for instance an aryllithium such as 2 4 difluorophenyllithium or the corresponding aryl Grignard reagent at low temperature e.g. 78 C. yields compounds of formula III which can be converted into compounds of formula I according to the methods of Schemes 2 and 1.

Scheme 8 refers to the preparation of compounds XX. Compounds of formula XXII formed in analogous fashion to Scheme 3 are subjected to standard ruthenium catalyzed cross metathesis conditions for instance using Grubbs second generation metathesis catalyst in the presence of methyl prop 2 enoate to afford compounds of formula XXIII. The acetal is cleaved under acidic conditions aqueous HCl as an example to give an aldehyde that is immediately condensed with a hydroxylamine salt such as hydroxylamine sulfate providing a geometric mixture of the corresponding oxime XXIV. Cycloaddition to form isoxazoline XXV may be carried out by treatment of oxime XXIV with an oxidizing agent such as sodium hypochlorite or N chlorosuccinimide. Reduction of the methyl ester of isoxazoline XXV can be effected through the use of an appropriate reducing agent for instance sodium borohydride to afford a compound of formula XX which can be converted into compounds of formula I according to the methods of Schemes 7 2 and 1.

Scheme 9 refers to the preparation of homochiral compounds Via wherein Ris methyl. Compounds of formula XXVI are subjected to a crotylation using a camphor derived allylic alcohol see J. Nokami et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001 123 9168 9169 resulting in stereochemically defined compounds of formula Via which can be converted to compounds of formula I via Schemes 3 2 and 1.

Scheme 10 refers to the preparation of compounds VI wherein Ris alkyl. Acids of formula XXVII are converted to the corresponding Weinreb amide XXVIII and alkylated with an allylmetallic reagent for instance allyl magnesium bromide . Reduction of the ketone can be effected through use of an appropriate reducing agent for instance lithium aluminium hydride to afford a compound of formula VI which can be converted to compounds of formula I via Schemes 3 2 and 1.

The following illustrate the synthesis of various compounds of the present invention. Additional compounds within the scope of this invention may be prepared using the methods illustrated in these Examples either alone or in combination with techniques generally known in the art.

Experiments were generally carried out under inert atmosphere nitrogen or argon particularly in cases where oxygen or moisture sensitive reagents or intermediates were employed. Commercial solvents and reagents were generally used without further purification including anhydrous solvents where appropriate generally Sure Seal products from the Aldrich Chemical Company Milwaukee Wis. .

Products were generally dried under vacuum before being carried on to further reactions or submitted for biological testing. Mass spectrometry data is reported from either liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LCMS atmospheric pressure chemical ionization APCI or gas chromatography mass spectrometry GCMS instrumentation. Chemical shifts for nuclear magnetic resonance NMR data are expressed in parts per million ppm 8 referenced to residual peaks from the deuterated solvents employed.

For syntheses referencing procedures in other Examples or Methods reaction conditions length of reaction and temperature may vary. In general reactions were followed by thin layer chromatography or mass spectrometry and subjected to work up when appropriate. Purifications may vary between experiments in general solvents and the solvent ratios used for eluents gradients were chosen to provide appropriate Rs or retention times.

To a solution of 2R 2 benzyloxy methyl oxirane 167 g 1.02 mol in tetrahydrofuran 2 L was added copper I iodide 11.62 g 61.02 mmol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 5 minutes then cooled to 78 C. A solution of vinylmagnesium bromide 1 M in tetrahydrofuran 1.12 L 1.12 mol was added drop wise over 1 hour while the reaction temperature was maintained below 70 C. Upon completion of the addition the cooling bath was removed and the reaction mixture was left to stir at room temperature for 1 hour then quenched by slow addition of aqueous ammonium chloride solution 200 mL . After dilution with additional aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1.5 L and ethyl acetate 1.5 L the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 1 L and the combined organic layers were washed with aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1.5 L dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Three batches of this reaction were carried out and combined to give the product as an orange oil. Yield 600 g 3.1 mmol quantitative. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 7.40 m 5H 5.78 5.90 m 1H 5.08 5.17 m 2H 4.57 s 2H 3.86 3.94 m 1H 3.53 dd J 9.6 3.3 Hz 1H 3.39 dd J 9.6 7.4 Hz 1H 2.26 2.34 m 3H .

To a suspension of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 98.8 g 2.47 mol in tetrahydrofuran 1 L at room temperature was added drop wise over 30 minutes a solution of 2R 1 benzyloxy pent 4 en 2 ol C1 190 g 0.988 mol in tetrahydrofuran 500 mL while the reaction temperature was maintained below 30 C. After 30 minutes a solution of 2 bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 390 g 1.98 mol in tetrahydrofuran 500 mL was added drop wise. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour then the temperature was gradually increased to 70 C. and the reaction mixture was left to stir at 70 C. for 18 hours. It was then cooled to room temperature subsequently cooled in an ice bath and quenched by slow addition of ice water 200 mL while keeping the internal reaction temperature at approximately 18 C. The mixture was partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 1 L and ethyl acetate 1 L and the organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 1 L dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification was effected by filtration through a pad of silica Gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in heptane to afford the product as an orange oil. Yield 257 g of 60 purity approximately 500 mmol 51 yield and 57.76 g of 90 purity approximately 170 mmol 17 yield. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl product peaks only 7.26 7.38 m 5H 5.78 5.90 m 1H 5.02 5.13 m 2H 4.61 t J 5.3 Hz 1H 4.55 s 2H 3.48 3.74 m 9H 2.31 2.37 m 2H 1.22 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.21 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

A solution of 2R 2 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl pent 4 en 1 yl oxymethyl benzene C2 234 g 0.759 mol in formic acid 400 mL and water 100 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. As LCMS analysis revealed a small amount of remaining starting material formic acid 50 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for a further 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethanol 1 L and water 400 mL . Hydroxylamine sulfate 435 g 2.65 mol and sodium acetate 217 g 2.64 mol were added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then filtered and concentrated in vacuo the residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 500 mL and water 1 L and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 500 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as an orange oil 234 g which was taken directly to the following step. By H NMR this material consisted of a roughly 1 1 mixture of oxime isomers. LCMS m z 250.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.52 t J 5.5 Hz and 6.96 t J 3.6 Hz total 1H 7.28 7.39 m 5H 5.74 5.87 m 1H 5.04 5.14 m 2H 4.55 and 4.56 2 s total 2H 4.45 4.55 m and 4.27 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 5.4 Hz and 4.21 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 5.6 Hz total 2H 2.30 2.37 m 2H .

An aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite 14.5 solution 600 mL was added drop wise to a 0 C. solution of 2 2R 1 benzyloxy pent 4 en 2 yl oxy N hydroxyethanimine C3 224 g from the previous step 

Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 60.1 mL 474 mmol was added to a solution of 3aR 5R 5 benzyloxy methyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C4 50.0 g 202 mmol in a 1 1 mixture of toluene and diisopropyl ether 2 L at an internal temperature of 76 C. The reaction was stirred at this temperature for 30 minutes then treated with 2 4 difluoro 1 iodobenzene 27.1 mL 226 mmol . While the reaction temperature was maintained at 76 to 71 C. n butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 85.7 mL 214 mmol was slowly added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 76 C. for 1.5 hours then was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1 L and partitioned between water 1 L and ethyl acetate 750 mL . After the heterogeneous mixture warmed to room temperature the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 250 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 550 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 70 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a yellow oil. The cis ring fusion was assigned to this and subsequent products from similar reactions on the basis of the expected attack of the organometallic reagent on the convex side of the bicyclic ring system. Yield 48.14 g 133.2 mmol 66 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.94 ddd J 9 9 7 Hz 1H 7.28 7.40 m 5H 6.87 6.93 m 1H 6.80 ddd J 12.0 8.6 2.4 Hz 1H 4.60 AB quartet J 12.1 Hz 21.4 Hz 2H 4.14 br dd J 12.8 1.3 Hz 1H 3.82 3.90 m 2H 3.72 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 3.54 3.60 m 2H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.3 4.1 Hz 1H 3.04 3.13 m 1H 1.86 ddd J 14.0 7.0 2.0 Hz 1H 1.49 1.61 m 1H .

 3aR 5R 7aS 5 Benzyloxy methyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C5 48.1 g 133 mmol was dissolved in acetic acid 444 mL and treated with zinc powder 113 g 1.73 mol . The reaction mixture which had warmed to 40 C. was allowed to cool to room temperature and stir for 16 hours. Insoluble material was removed via filtration through a Celite pad and the pad was washed with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL . The combined filtrates were neutralized with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 2.5 L and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 1 L dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as a thick yellow oil which was used in the following reaction without additional purification. Yield 48.7 g assumed quantitative. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.62 7.80 br m 1H 7.28 7.39 m 5H 6.94 7.06 m 1H 6.83 ddd J 12.7 8.5 2.6 Hz 1H 4.61 AB quartet upfield doublet is broadened J 12.2 Hz 30.5 Hz 2H 4.22 dd J 11.6 2.2 Hz 1H 3.83 3.92 br m 1H 3.62 3.73 br m 1H 3.56 dd J 10.2 3.5 Hz 1H 3.34 3.41 m 1H 2.26 2.43 br m 1H 2.00 2.17 br m 1H 1.65 ddd J 14.1 4.5 2.5 Hz 1H .

Benzoyl isothiocyanate 17.8 mL 132 mmol was added to a solution of 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C6 48.7 g 133 mmol in dichloromethane 1.34 L and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 18 hours. Removal of solvent in vacuo afforded the product as a white solid which was used without additional purification. Yield 72.2 g assumed quantitative. LCMS m z 527.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 7.89 7.93 m 2H 7.62 7.67 m 1H 7.50 7.56 m 2H 7.42 7.54 br m 1H 7.31 7.36 m 2H 7.17 7.28 m 3H 6.86 6.98 m 2H 4.57 AB quartet J 11.9 Hz 11.8 Hz 2H 3.84 3.91 m 1H 3.64 br dd half of ABX pattern J 10.6 6.0 Hz 1H 3.58 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.6 3.8 Hz 1H 3.44 3.54 br m 1H 2.32 2.59 br m 1H 1.82 2.06 m 2H .

Pyridine 11.0 mL 137 mmol was added to a solution of N 3S 4R 6R 6 benzyloxy methyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 hydroxymethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 yl carbamothioylbenzamide C7 19.00 g 36.08 mmol in dichloromethane 150 mL and the resulting solution was cooled to 50 to 60 C. Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 12.1 mL 71.9 mmol in dichloromethane 50 mL was added drop wise and the reaction mixture was gradually warmed to 5 C. over 3 hours. Water was added and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 20 to 40 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a yellow foamy solid. Yield 15.51 g 30.50 mmol 85 . LCMS m z 509.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.23 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.37 7.57 br m 4H 7.24 7.36 m 5H 6.85 6.97 m 2H 4.58 AB quartet upfield signals are slightly broadened J 11.9 Hz 23.5 Hz 2H 4.17 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.90 3.97 m 1H 3.83 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.64 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.1 6.4 Hz 1H 3.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.4 Hz 1H 3.11 3.21 br m 1H 3.02 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.64 br d J 13 Hz 1H 1.92 2.05 br m 1H 1.71 br d J 13 Hz 1H .

Boron trichloride 1 M solution in heptane 89.7 mL 89.7 mmol was added to a 0 C. solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 benzyloxy methyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C8 15.20 g 29.89 mmol in dichloromethane 150 mL . After 15 minutes the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. Methanol 50 mL was then added first drop wise Caution violent reaction and then at a steady rate while the interior of the flask was flushed with nitrogen gas. The mixture was heated at reflux for 30 minutes cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was again dissolved in methanol stirred and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting material was taken up in dichloromethane and washed sequentially with 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatographic purification on silica gel Gradient 0 to 3 methanol in ethyl acetate provided the product as a foamy yellow solid. Yield 11.97 g 28.60 mmol 96 . LCMS m z 419.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.13 d J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.41 7.49 m 3H 7.02 7.11 m 2H 4.13 dd J 11.9 1.8 Hz 1H 3.90 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.72 3.80 m 1H 3.59 d J 5.1 Hz 2H 3.14 3.24 br m 1H 2.96 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.1 4.1 Hz 1H 2.75 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.1 2.7 Hz 1H 1.80 1.92 m 1H 1.70 ddd J 13.4 4.2 2.4 Hz 1H .

Triethylamine 16.7 mL 120 mmol was added in one portion to a solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 hydroxymethyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C9 4.18 g 10.0 mmol in dichloromethane 200 mL that was immersed in a room temperature water bath. After 5 minutes anhydrous dimethyl sulfoxide 9.94 mL 140 mmol was rapidly added followed immediately by solid sulfur trioxide pyridine complex 98 13.0 g 80.0 mmol in a single portion. The resulting solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 6.5 hours then diluted with a 1 1 mixture of water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 200 mL and stirred for 10 minutes. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 200 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with water 100 mL washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane gave the product as a white solid. Yield 2.81 g 6.75 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 414.9 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.71 s 1H 8.20 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.36 7.49 m 3H 6.86 6.99 m 2H 4.23 br d J 12.1 Hz 1H 4.12 dd J 12.1 2.9 Hz 1H 3.94 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 3.13 3.22 m 1H 3.04 dd J 13.1 4.1 Hz 1H 2.69 dd J 13.1 2.9 Hz 1H 2.02 2.14 m 1H 1.92 1.99 m 1H .

 2R 2 2 2 Diethoxyethoxyl pent 4 en 1 yl oxymethyl benzene C2 12.4 g 40.2 mmol was dissolved in acetic acid 28 mL and water 12 mL . Hydroxylamine hydrochloride 2.84 g 40.9 mmol was added as a solid. After 1 hour additional hydroxylamine hydrochloride 2.84 g 40.9 mmol was added. After 1 more hour the reaction mixture was diluted with tert butyl methyl ether 100 mL and washed with water 3 50 mL then washed with aqueous potassium carbonate solution 0.5 M 100 mL . The organic layer was concentrated to provide the product as a pale yellow oil which consisted of a roughly equimolar mixture of oxime isomers as assessed by H NMR. Yield 9.60 g 38.5 mmol 96 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.98 and 7.67 2 br s total 1H 7.50 t J 5.6 Hz and 6.95 t J 3.6 Hz total 1H 7.28 7.39 m 5H 5.74 5.87 m 1H 5.04 5.14 m 2H 4.55 and 4.56 2 s total 2H 4.47 4.49 m 1H 4.18 4.28 m 1H 3.47 3.65 m 3H 2.30 2.37 m 2H .

Pyridine 23.1 mL 286 mmol was added to a solution of 2 2R 1 benzyloxy pent 4 en 2 yl oxy N hydroxyethanimine C3 35.6 g 143 mmol in dichloromethane 350 mL . N Chlorosuccinimide 19.4 g 145 mmol was added in portions over roughly 2 hours. The reaction was stirred for 3 hours then diluted with an aqueous solution of sodium sulfite 5 g in 100 mL water . The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane the combined organic layers were washed with water dried and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography Eluent 1 2 ethyl acetate hexanes afforded the product. Yield 21.2 g 85.7 mmol 60 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 7.40 m 5H 4.77 d J 13.4 Hz 1H 4.55 4.65 m 3H 4.22 dd J 13.5 1.3 Hz 1H 3.79 dd J 11.7 8.0 Hz 1H 3.69 3.76 m 1H 3.57 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 5.9 Hz 1H 3.49 dd half of ABX pattern J 10.2 4.3 Hz 1H 3.40 3.5 m 1H 2.21 ddd J 12.9 6.5 1.8 Hz 1H 1.57 ddd J 13 12 11 Hz 1H .

 3 Bromopropoxy tert butyl dimethylsilane 97 3.52 g 13.5 mmol was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL 1 mL of this solution was added to a suspension of magnesium turnings 439 mg 18.1 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 13 mL followed by a few crystals of iodine and the mixture was stirred for 25 minutes resulting in an exotherm to an internal temperature of 26 C. The remainder of the substrate solution was added drop wise at a rate that maintained the internal reaction temperature below 35 C. The reaction mixture was heated to 40 C. for 1 hour and then cooled to room temperature. The mixture was taken up in a syringe and filtered through a 0.45 m nylon disc to provide a solution approximately 26 mL which was assumed to be 0.5 M in Grignard reagent C10.

 3 tert Butyl dimethyl silyl oxypropyl magnesium bromide C10 0.5 M solution in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL 1 mmol was slowly added to a 78 C. solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 formyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide P1 104 mg 0.250 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 3 mL and the reaction mixture was slowly warmed to 0 C. over 1 hour then to room temperature over 15 minutes. After an additional 45 minutes at room temperature saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 3 mL was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as an off white solid. H NMR analysis suggested that this material was a single diastereomer of unknown configuration at the tetrahydrofuran center. Yield 28 mg 47 mol 19 . LCMS m z 591.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 8.23 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.48 7.55 m 1H 7.36 7.48 m 3H 6.84 6.97 m 2H 4.16 dd J 12.2 1.5 Hz 1H 3.84 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.54 3.71 m 4H 3.10 3.18 m 1H 3.02 dd J 12.8 4.0 Hz 1H 2.65 dd J 12.9 2.7 Hz 1H 1.95 2.08 m 1H 1.43 1.54 m 1H 0.90 s 9H 0.06 s 6H .

N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 4 tert Butyl dimethyl silyl oxy 1 hydroxybutyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C11 28 mg 47 mol was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 0.3 mL and cooled to 0 C. A solution of tetrabutylammonium fluoride in tetrahydrofuran 1 M 61 L 61 mol was added drop wise and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and then stir for 1 hour. After addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 5 mL the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 35 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white foam. Yield 19 mg 40 mol 85 . LCMS m z 477.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.22 br d J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.49 7.56 m 1H 7.42 7.49 m 2H 7.39 ddd J 9.0 9.0 6.3 Hz 1H 6.85 6.97 m 2H 4.16 dd J 12.1 1.4 Hz 1H 3.85 br d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.53 3.74 m 4H 3.10 3.19 m 1H 3.02 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.65 dd J 12.9 2.5 Hz 1H 1.94 2.06 m 1H 1.63 1.80 m 4H 1.49 1.60 m 1H .

Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 12.5 L 76 mol was added drop wise to a 78 C. solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 1 4 dihydroxybutyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C12 18 mg 38 mol and 2 6 dimethylpyridine 17.6 L 152 mol in dichloromethane 0.65 mL and the reaction mixture was allowed to gradually warm to 0 C. over 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was partitioned between dichloromethane 10 mL and water 5 mL and the organic layer was washed with water 2 5 mL and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 mL then dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 60 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as an off white foam. Yield 14.7 mg 32.1 mol 84 . LCMS m z 459.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 8.23 br d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.36 7.55 m 4H 6.84 6.97 m 2H 4.17 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.76 3.94 m 4H 3.63 3.70 m 1H 3.11 3.20 m 1H 3.03 dd J 12.8 4.2 Hz 1H 2.65 br d J 13 Hz 1H 1.83 2.06 m 4H .

N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 tetrahydrofuran 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C13 14.5 mg 31.6 mol was combined with methanol 0.3 mL and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 4.0 L 27 mol and heated at 80 C. in a sealed tube for 7 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo then partitioned between ethyl acetate 5 mL and water 3 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 5 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification via reversed phase HPLC Column Waters Sunfire C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in water v v Mobile phase B 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile v v Gradient 5 to 100 B afforded the product as a solid presumed to be a single diastereomer of unknown configuration at the tetrahydrofuran center. Yield 12.1 mg 25.8 mol 82 . LCMS m z 355.1 M H . H NMR 600 MHz DMSO d characteristic peaks 7.38 ddd J 12.7 9.0 2.4 Hz 1H 7.27 7.33 m 1H 7.21 7.26 m 1H 3.71 3.80 m 2H 3.59 3.67 m 2H 3.13 3.19 m 1H 3.03 dd J 13.2 2.6 Hz 1H 2.89 dd J 12.9 3.7 Hz 1H 1.86 1.93 m 1H 1.75 1.86 m 2H 1.58 1.70 m 3H .

1 Cyclopropylbut 3 en 1 ol C14 see C. Tahtaoui et al. 2010 75 3781 3785 92 8.1 g 66 mmol was added to a 0 C. suspension of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 8.25 g 206 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 105 mL . The cooling bath was removed and the suspension was stirred until the internal temperature reached 21 C. The reaction mixture was then cooled in an ice bath and 2 bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 97 18.5 mL 119 mmol was added drop wise at a rate that maintained the internal temperature below 5 C. After warming to room temperature the reaction mixture was heated to 58 C. for 27 hours. Sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 3.3 g 83 mmol and 2 bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 97 10 mL 64 mmol were added again and the reaction mixture was heated at mild reflux for 14 hours. It was then cooled to 0 C. slowly quenched with water 100 mL and extracted with diethyl ether 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a colorless oil. Yield 12.1 g 53.0 mmol 80 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.87 5.98 m 1H 5.05 5.11 m 1H 5.00 5.04 m 1H 4.61 t J 5.3 Hz 1H 3.66 3.75 m 3H 3.54 3.62 m 2H 3.47 dd J 10.3 5.5 Hz 1H 2.70 dt J 8.4 6.0 Hz 1H 2.36 2.41 m 2H 1.22 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.22 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.80 0.90 m 1H 0.54 0.62 m 1H 0.35 0.50 m 2H 0.07 0.14 m 1H .

A mixture of 1 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl but 3 en 1 yl cyclopropane C15 2.97 g 13.0 mmol aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M 39 mL 39 mmol and tetrahydrofuran 39 mL was stirred at room temperature for 12.5 hours then heated to 40 C. for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and slowly transferred into a stirring biphasic mixture of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 200 mL and diethyl ether 200 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with diethyl ether 2 100 mL and the combined organic extracts were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo 900 mbar 60 C. to afford the product as a colorless oil 3.63 g which contained residual diethyl ether and tetrahydrofuran by H NMR analysis. This material was taken directly into the following step. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.76 9.78 m 1H 5.86 5.98 m 1H 5.04 5.15 m 2H 4.15 br AB quartet J 17.8 Hz 22.8 Hz 2H 2.71 dt J 8.8 5.9 Hz 1H 2.41 2.47 m 2H 0.81 0.91 m 1H 0.58 0.66 m 1H 0.49 0.57 m 1H 0.31 0.38 m 1H 0.08 0.15 m 1H .

 1 Cyclopropylbut 3 en 1 yl oxy acetaldehyde C16 3.63 g from the previous step 13.0 mmol was dissolved in a 2 1 mixture of ethanol and water 39 mL . Sodium acetate 5.32 g 64.9 mmol was added after the reaction mixture had been stirred for 15 minutes hydroxylamine hydrochloride 98 2.76 g 38.9 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was heated to 60 C. for 5 minutes at which time water 4 1 mL was added until a solution formed. After 1 hour at 60 C. the reaction mixture was cooled concentrated under reduced pressure to remove ethanol and diluted with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL . The mixture was extracted with diethyl ether 3 100 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo at 22 C. Silica gel chromatography 0 to 25 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a thick opaque oil. By H NMR analysis this material consisted of a roughly 1 1 mixture of E and Z oxime isomers. Yield 1.771 g 10.47 mmol 81 over two steps. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.50 dd J 5.7 5.6 Hz and 6.92 6.99 m total 1H 5.84 5.97 m 1H 5.03 5.15 m 2H 4.53 dd half of ABX pattern J 16.4 3.5 Hz and 4.41 dd half of ABX pattern J 16.4 3.6 Hz and 4.27 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.9 5.5 Hz and 4.16 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.9 5.8 Hz total 2H 2.65 2.74 m 1H 2.37 2.44 m 2H 0.81 0.91 m 1H 0.59 0.68 m 1H 0.47 0.56 m 1H 0.35 0.44 m 1H 0.07 0.15 m 1H .

An aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite 6.15 solution 27.1 mL 22.4 mmol was added drop wise over 24 minutes to a solution of 2 1 cyclopropylbut 3 en 1 yl oxy N hydroxyethanimine C17 1.85 g 10.9 mmol and triethylamine 0.114 mL 0.818 mmol in dichloromethane 64 mL that was immersed in a room temperature water bath. The rate of addition was adjusted to maintain the internal temperature of the reaction between 19.5 C. and 22.8 C. After completion of the addition the reaction mixture was diluted with water 50 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo 300 mbar 40 C. to provide the product as a pale yellow oil. The indicated relative stereochemistry of compound C18 was assigned based on nuclear Overhauser enhancement studies which revealed an interaction between the methine protons on carbons 3a and 5. Yield 1.73 g 10.3 mmol 94 . GCMS m z 167 M . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.73 d J 13.5 Hz 1H 4.61 dd J 10.2 8.0 Hz 1H 4.14 dd J 13.5 1.0 Hz 1H 3.80 dd J 11.5 8.0 Hz 1H 3.36 3.48 m 1H 2.83 ddd J 11.0 8.0 1.8 Hz 1H 2.31 ddd J 13.0 6.5 1.5 Hz 1H 1.64 ddd J 12.8 11.4 11.3 Hz 1H 0.89 0.98 m 1H 0.51 0.64 m 2H 0.38 0.45 m 1H 0.21 0.28 m 1H .

Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 2.97 mL 24.1 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of rel 3aR 5R 5 cyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C18 1.67 g 9.99 mmol in toluene 150 mL at an internal temperature of 72.5 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 73 C. to 76 C. for 30 minutes then treated with 2 4 difluoro 1 iodobenzene 98 1.37 mL 11.2 mmol in one portion. While the reaction temperature was maintained below 73 C. n butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 4.24 mL 10.6 mmol was added in a drop wise manner over 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at 73 C. to 75 C. for 1 hour then was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 350 mL at 74 C. and allowed to warm to room temperature. The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 400 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with additional ethyl acetate 250 mL and 100 mL the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 30 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid after azeotroping twice with dichloromethane. Yield 2.16 g 7.68 mmol 77 . GCMS m z 281 M . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.88 7.98 m 1H 6.84 6.93 m 1H 6.79 ddd J 11.9 8.6 2.4 Hz 1H 6.34 br s 1H 4.04 br d J 12.7 Hz 1H 3.83 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 3.72 d J 7.0 Hz 1H 3.54 dd J 6.8 5.1 Hz 1H 2.99 3.08 m 1H 2.86 2.95 m 1H 1.99 br dd J 13.8 6.8 Hz 1H 1.56 1.68 m 1H 0.88 1.00 m 1H 0.51 0.64 m 2H 0.37 0.47 m 1H 0.24 0.33 m 1H .

rel 3aR 5R 7aS 5 Cyclopropyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C19 1.19 g 4.23 mmol was converted to the product according to the method described for the synthesis of 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C6 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as a thick pale amber gum 1.22 g which was taken directly to the following step without additional purification. LCMS m z 284.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.61 7.77 br m 1H 6.90 7.05 br m 1H 6.82 ddd J 12.7 8.6 2.6 Hz 1H 4.13 dd J 11.5 2.5 Hz 1H 3.55 br dd J 11 2 Hz 1H 3.32 3.49 br m 2H 2.89 ddd J 11.3 8.2 2.5 Hz 1H 2.03 2.34 br m 2H 1.81 ddd J 14.0 4.0 2.6 Hz 1H 1.01 1.13 br m 1H 0.53 0.65 m 2H 0.41 0.48 m 1H 0.24 0.32 m 1H .

Benzoyl isothiocyanate 0.540 mL 4.02 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of rel 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 cyclopropyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C20 1.20 g 4.23 mmol in dichloromethane 45 mL . After the reaction mixture had stirred at room temperature for 15 hours it was partitioned between aqueous hydrochloric acid 0.1 M 20 mL and dichloromethane 35 mL . The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 25 mL and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 25 mL then dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 45 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 1.69 g 3.78 mmol 89 . LCMS m z 447.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCN 11.64 br s 1H 9.28 br s 1H 7.89 7.93 m 2H 7.64 7.69 m 1H 7.52 7.58 m 2H 7.44 7.58 br m 1H 6.86 6.99 m 2H 3.48 3.86 br m 2H 3.35 3.47 m 1H 3.01 ddd J 11.3 7.6 2.7 Hz 1H 2.89 3.0 br m 1H 2.3 2.6 br m 1H 1.96 2.03 m 1H 1.7 1.9 br m 1H 0.90 1.00 m 1H 0.44 0.53 m 2H 0.34 0.40 m 1H 0.26 0.31 m 1H .

rel N 3S 4R 6R 6 Cyclopropyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 hydroxymethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 yl carbamothioylbenzamide C21 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 benzyloxy methyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C8 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as a solid. Yield 1.42 g 3.31 mmol 88 . LCMS m z 429.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 11.7 12.5 v br s 1H 8.24 br d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.48 7.54 m 1H 7.38 7.48 m 3H 6.82 6.97 m 2H 4.08 br dd J 12.4 1.3 Hz 1H 3.80 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.05 3.13 m 1H 2.93 3.04 m 2H 2.64 dd J 12.8 2.6 Hz 1H 2.05 2.18 m 1H 1.75 1.83 m 1H 0.96 1.06 m 1H 0.50 0.62 m 2H 0.40 0.46 m 1H 0.22 0.29 m 1H .

rel N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 Cyclopropyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C22 480 mg 1.12 mmol was combined with methanol 20 mL and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 95 130 L 0.83 mmol and heated at 80 C. for 9 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled and concentrated in vacuo then partitioned between dichloromethane 100 mL and water 40 mL . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane to provide the racemic product which was separated into its enantiomers using supercritical fluid chromatography Column Phenomenex Lux Cellulose 4 5 m Eluent 7 3 carbon dioxide methanol containing 0.2 isopropylamine . The first eluting enantiomer provided the product as a pale yellow solid. The indicated absolute stereochemistry was assigned to compound 2 on the basis of this compound s biological activity its enantiomer C23 below proved essentially inactive see Table 3 . Yield 147 mg 0.453 mmol 40 . LCMS m z 325.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.36 ddd J 9 9 6.7 Hz 1H 6.82 6.89 m 1H 6.78 ddd J 12.4 8.6 2.6 Hz 1H 4.01 dd J 11.0 2.4 Hz 1H 3.79 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 2.95 dd J 12.2 4.2 Hz 1H 2.79 2.90 m 2H 2.60 dd J 12.3 2.7 Hz 1H 1.88 2.00 m 1H 1.61 ddd J 13.4 4.1 2.2 Hz 1H 0.95 1.05 m 1H 0.48 0.60 m 2H 0.39 0.46 m 1H 0.19 0.26 m 1H .

The second eluting enantiomer also obtained as a pale yellow solid was assigned as 4aS 6S 8aR 6 cyclopropyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine C23 . Yield 144 mg 0.444 mmol 40 . LCMS m z 325.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.36 ddd J 9.0 9.0 6.6 Hz 1H 6.83 6.90 m 1H 6.78 ddd J 12.5 8.6 2.5 Hz 1H 4.01 dd J 11.1 2.2 Hz 1H 3.80 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 2.95 dd J 12.3 4.1 Hz 1H 2.80 2.91 m 2H 2.61 dd J 12.3 2.7 Hz 1H 1.88 2.00 m 1H 1.62 ddd J 13.3 4.0 2.2 Hz 1H 0.95 1.05 m 1H 0.48 0.60 m 2H 0.38 0.46 m 1H 0.19 0.26 m 1H .

Using the method described by J. Nokami et al. 2001 123 9168 9169 cyclopropanecarbaldehyde was reacted with 1S 2R 5S 1 2S but 3 en 2 yl 5 methyl 2 propan 2 yl cyclohexanol this crotylation reagent was derived from menthol to afford the product as an oil. Yield 600 mg 4.75 mmol 100 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 5.45 5.63 m 2H 2.86 2.92 m 1H 2.33 2.41 m 1H 2.20 2.29 m 1H 1.69 1.72 m 3H 0.47 0.56 m 2H 0.27 0.37 m 1H 0.16 0.26 m 1H .

 1R 3E 1 Cyclopropylpent 3 en 1 ol C24 was converted to the product according to the method used for the synthesis of 2R 2 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl pent 4 en 1 yl oxymethyl benzene C2 in Preparation P1 except that all reagents were combined at 0 C. The product was obtained as a colorless oil. Yield 550 mg 2.27 mmol 48 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.44 5.59 m 2H 4.62 dd J 5.3 5.3 Hz 1H 3.66 3.76 m 3H 3.54 3.63 m 2H 3.47 dd J 10.3 5.5 Hz 1H 2.65 dt J 8.5 5.9 Hz 1H 2.28 2.33 m 2H 1.65 1.68 m 3H 1.23 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.23 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.79 0.88 m 1H 0.53 0.60 m 1H 0.42 0.50 m 1H 0.34 0.41 m 1H 0.06 0.13 m 1H .

 1R 3E 1 2 2 Diethoxyethoxyl pent 3 en 1 yl cyclopropane C25 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of 2 2R 1 benzyloxy pent 4 en 2 yl oxy N hydroxyethanimine C3 in the section Alternate conversion of C2 to C4. In this case purification was carried out using silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in heptane to provide the product as a colorless oil. By H NMR this was assigned as a roughly 1 1 mixture of oxime isomers. Yield 200 mg 1.09 mmol 48 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.50 dd J 5.8 5.6 Hz and 6.93 dd J 3.6 3.6 Hz total 1H 7.46 and 7.21 2 br s total 1H 5.45 5.63 m 2H 4.50 dd half of ABX pattern J 16.3 3.6 Hz and 4.40 dd half of ABX pattern J 16.3 3.7 Hz and 4.25 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.8 5.6 Hz and 4.15 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.9 5.8 Hz total 2H 2.59 2.68 m 1H 1.66 1.72 m 3H 0.45 0.54 m 1H 0.29 0.43 m 1H 0.18 0.24 and 0.06 0.14 2 m total 1H .

An aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite 6.15 solution 0.7 mL 0.6 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of 2 1R 3E 1 cyclopropylpent 3 en 1 yl oxy N hydroxyethanimine C26 200 mg 1.09 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL followed by addition of triethylamine 11 L 79 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour then treated with a drop of triethylamine and additional aqueous sodium hypochlorite solution 6.15 0.5 mL 0.4 mmol . After 20 minutes the reaction mixture was partitioned between water 10 mL and dichloromethane 20 mL the organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as an oil. The indicated relative stereochemistry of compound C27 was assigned based on nuclear Overhauser enhancement studies which revealed interactions of the methine proton on carbon 3a with both the protons of the methyl group on carbon 3 and the methine proton on carbon 5. Yield 150 mg 0.828 mmol 76 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.64 d J 13.5 Hz 1H 4.17 4.25 m 1H 4.08 dd J 13.6 1.3 Hz 1H 2.84 2.93 m 1H 2.76 ddd J 11.0 7.9 1.9 Hz 1H 2.21 dddd J 12.9 6.6 1.9 0.5 Hz 1H 1.57 ddd J 12.9 11.4 11.4 Hz 1H 1.45 d J 6.2 Hz 3H 0.86 0.96 m 1H 0.48 0.61 m 2H 0.35 0.42 m 1H 0.19 0.26 m 1H .

 3S 3aR 5R 5 Cyclopropyl 3 methyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C27 was converted to the product according to the method described for synthesis of rel 3aR 5R 7aS 5 cyclopropyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C19 in Example 2. The product was obtained as a gum. Yield 60 mg 0.20 mmol 40 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.99 ddd J 9.2 9.0 6.8 Hz 1H 6.90 dddd J 8.9 7.9 2.6 1.0 Hz 1H 6.79 ddd J 11.9 8.7 2.5 Hz 1H 6.31 br s 1H 4.03 4.10 m 1H 3.89 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.8 2.0 Hz 1H 3.80 br dd half of ABX pattern J 12.8 1.5 Hz 1H 2.79 2.91 m 2H 2.16 ddd J 14.3 7.5 2.5 Hz 1H 1.64 dddd J 14.2 10.7 10.7 1.7 Hz 1H 0.90 0.99 m 1H 0.79 d J 6.5 Hz 3H 0.52 0.64 m 2H 0.39 0.45 m 1H 0.24 0.31 m 1H .

 3S 3aR 5R 7aS 5 Cyclopropyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl 3 methyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C28 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C6 in Preparation P1. The resulting oil was used in the next step without additional purification. Yield 0.11 g 0.37 mmol 87 . LCMS m z 298.2 M H .

Benzoyl isothiocyanate 47 L 0.35 mmol was slowly added to a 0 C. solution of 1S 1 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 cyclopropyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl ethanol C29 0.11 g 0.37 mmol in dichloromethane 6 mL and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir in the ice bath for 18 hours. After removal of solvent in vacuo the residue was purified via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane to provide the product as an off white foam. Yield 94 mg 0.20 mmol 54 . LCMS m z 461.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 11.85 v br s 1H 8.90 br s 1H 7.91 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.63 7.68 m 1H 7.52 7.58 m 2H 6.84 6.91 m 1H 6.68 6.82 br m 1H 3.84 3.96 br m 1H 2.90 2.99 br m 1H 1.84 1.94 br m 1H 1.02 1.14 br m 1H 0.47 0.65 m 3H 0.28 0.38 br m 1H .

Diethyl azodicarboxylate 92 L 0.59 mmol was added to a 0 C. solution of triphenylphosphine 153 mg 0.583 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 7 mL and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes in the ice bath. A solution of N 3S 4R 6R 6 cyclopropyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 1S 1 hydroxyethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ylcarbamothioyl benzamide C30 90 mg 0.20 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL was added drop wise to the reaction mixture which was then stirred for 1 hour under ice cooling. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a gum. Yield 45 mg 0.10 mmol 50 . LCMS m z 441.1 M H .

N 4R 4aR 6R 8aS 6 Cyclopropyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 methyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C31 was converted to the product according to the method described for the synthesis of the racemate of 4aR 6R 8aS 6 cyclopropyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 2 in Example 2. After the chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane the sample a white solid was purified using reversed phase HPLC Column Waters Sunfire C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in water v v Mobile phase B 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile v v Gradient 5 to 100 B . Yield 12.2 mg 36.0 mol 36 . LCMS m z 339.1 M H . H NMR 600 MHz DMSO d characteristic peaks 7.34 7.40 m 1H 7.21 7.31 m 2H 3.83 3.89 m 2H 3.01 3.07 m 1H 2.92 2.98 m 1H 1.87 br d J 13 Hz 1H 1.32 1.40 m 1H 1.25 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.92 0.99 m 1H 0.44 0.52 m 2H 0.33 0.38 m 1H 0.29 0.33 m 1H .

Sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 295 mg 7.38 mmol was added to a solution of trimethylsulfoxonium iodide 97 1.83 g 8.07 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 15 mL . After 30 minutes the mixture was cooled in an ice bath and a solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 formyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide P1 1.12 g 2.69 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 5 mL was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir for 2 hours at which time saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution was added followed by dichloromethane and the mixture was washed twice with water and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The product was obtained as a white foamy solid estimated to be a roughly 4 3 mixture of diastereomers by LCMS analysis this material was used without additional purification. Yield 1.19 g quantitative. LCMS m z 431.1 M H .

Sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 225 mg 5.62 mmol was added to a solution of trimethylsulfoxonium iodide 97 1.45 g 6.39 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 7 mL . After 30 minutes a solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 oxiran 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C32 1.10 g 2.56 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 3 mL was added and the reaction mixture was heated to 45 C. for 18 hours. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution diluted with ethyl acetate washed twice with water and then with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification was carried out first by reversed phase chromatography Column Zymor HA Dipyridyl 5 m Gradient 10 to 100 ethanol in heptane then via supercritical fluid chromatography Column Chiral Technologies Chiralcel OJ H 5 m Eluent 3 1 carbon dioxide methanol to afford the product. Yield 19 mg 0.043 mmol 2 . This compound was assigned as a single diastereomer of unknown absolute stereochemistry at the oxetane by LCMS and H NMR analysis. LCMS m z 445.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.19 8.25 m 2H 7.49 7.54 m 1H 7.37 7.48 m 3H 6.85 6.97 m 2H 4.80 ddd J 7.9 6.7 6.5 Hz 1H 4.69 ddd J 8.5 7.2 6.0 Hz 1H 4.57 ddd J 9.1 6.1 6.0 Hz 1H 4.18 dd J 12.3 1.8 Hz 1H 3.92 ddd J 11.6 6.5 2.1 Hz 1H 3.85 d J 12.2 Hz 1H 3.14 3.22 m 1H 3.04 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.62 2.72 m 2H 2.47 2.57 m 1H 1.90 2.01 m 1H 1.62 ddd J 13.4 4.2 2.4 Hz 1H .

1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 95 7.5 mg 47 mol was added to a solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 oxetan 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C33 19 mg 43 mol in methanol 0.5 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. for 3.5 hours. After cooling and removal of solvent in vacuo purification was carried out via reversed phase HPLC Column Waters XBridge C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in water v v Mobile phase B 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in acetonitrile v v Gradient 20 to 60 B providing the product as a gum. Yield 11.7 mg 34.4 mol 73 . LCMS m z 341.2 M H . H NMR 600 MHz DMSO d 7.35 ddd J 9.2 9.2 7.0 Hz 1H 7.16 7.22 m 1H 7.07 7.11 m 1H 4.55 4.60 m 1H 4.46 4.51 m 1H 4.34 4.38 m 1H 3.90 dd J 10.5 2.2 Hz 1H 3.64 3.69 m 1H 3.59 d J 10.1 Hz 1H 2.46 2.75 m 5H 1.54 1.62 m 1H 1.36 1.41 m 1H .

A solution of methyl prop 2 enoate 69.5 mL 767 mmol and benzylidene 1 3 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl imidazolidin 2 ylidene dichloro tricyclohexylphosphine ruthenium Grubbs catalyst second generation 1.30 g 1.53 mmol in dichloromethane 102 mL was added to a solution of 1 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl but 3 en 1 yl cyclopropane C15 7.00 g 30.7 mmol in dichloromethane 102 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. After removal of solvent under reduced pressure the residue was mixed with diethyl ether and filtered through Celite. The filter pad was washed with additional diethyl ether and the combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. Purification using silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 30 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as an oil. Yield 6.0 g 21 mmol 68 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.04 dt J 15.7 7.4 Hz 1H 5.85 5.91 m 1H 4.59 dd J 5.4 5.2 Hz 1H 3.64 3.74 m 6H 3.52 3.61 m 2H 3.44 dd J 10.3 5.5 Hz 1H 2.76 dt J 8.5 5.9 Hz 1H 2.51 ddd J 7.3 5.9 1.4 Hz 2H 1.19 1.24 m 6H 0.78 0.89 m 1H 0.57 0.66 m 1H 0.37 0.52 m 2H 0.03 0.11 m 1H .

Methyl 2E 5 cyclopropyl 5 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl pent 2 enoate C34 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of 2 2R 1 benzyloxy pent 4 en 2 yl oxy N hydroxyethanimine C3 in the section Alternate conversion of C2 to C4. The product was obtained as an oil H NMR analysis indicated a roughly 1 1 mixture of geometric isomers around the oxime. Yield 3.50 g 15.4 mmol 73 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.73 and 7.47 2 br s total 1H 7.49 dd J 5.8 5.6 Hz and 6.90 dd J 3.7 3.6 Hz total 1H 6.99 7.09 m 1H 5.87 5.93 m 1H 4.54 dd half of ABX pattern J 16.1 3.6 Hz 4.37 dd half of ABX pattern J 16.0 3.7 Hz 4.28 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.8 5.5 Hz and 4.14 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.7 5.8 Hz total 2H 3.74 and 3.74 2 s total 3H 2.71 2.81 m 1H 2.51 2.57 m 2H 0.80 0.90 m 1H 0.63 0.72 m 1H 0.48 0.57 m 1H 0.38 0.47 m 1H 0.06 0.13 m 1H .

Methyl 2E 5 cyclopropyl 5 2 hydroxyimino ethyl oxypent 2 enoate C35 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of rel 3aR 5R 5 cyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C18 in Example 2. The product was obtained as a solid the indicated relative stereochemistry was assigned by analogy with C27 in Example 3. Yield 3.30 g 14.7 mmol 95 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.70 br d J 13.3 Hz 1H 4.61 d J 10.2 Hz 1H 4.13 dd J 13.3 1.2 Hz 1H 3.83 s 3H 3.55 3.64 m 1H 2.84 ddd J 11.0 7.9 1.9 Hz 1H 2.39 ddd J 12.9 6.6 1.7 Hz 1H 1.75 ddd J 12.9 11.5 11.3 Hz 1H 0.89 0.98 m 1H 0.51 0.64 m 2H 0.38 0.45 m 1H 0.22 0.29 m 1H .

A solution of methyl rel 3R 3aR 5R 5 cyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole 3 carboxylate C36 3.30 g 14.6 mmol in ethanol 30 mL and tetrahydrofuran 29 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with sodium borohydride 831 mg 22.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir for 20 minutes at that temperature then was poured into saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatographic purification on silica gel Eluent 60 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as an oil. Yield 1.95 g 9.89 mmol 68 . LCMS m z 198.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.67 br d J 13.3 Hz 1H 4.24 4.31 m 1H 4.13 d J 13.3 Hz 1H 3.96 4.04 m 1H 3.72 ddd J 12.3 8.8 3.5 Hz 1H 3.38 ddd J 10.9 10.9 6.6 Hz 1H 2.79 2.87 m 1H 2.25 dd J 12.9 6.6 Hz 1H 1.80 1.95 m 1H 1.63 1.74 m 1H 0.88 0.99 m 1H 0.50 0.68 m 2H 0.38 0.46 m 1H 0.21 0.29 m 1H .

Sodium hydride 60 in oil 395 mg 9.88 mmol was slurried in N N dimethylformamide 30 mL and cooled in an ice bath. A solution of rel 3R 3aR 5R 5 cyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazol 3 yl methanol C37 1.30 g 6.59 mmol in minimal N N dimethylformamide was added drop wise and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes. Iodomethane 0.45 mL 7.2 mmol was then added in a drop wise manner and the reaction was allowed to proceed for an additional 30 minutes at 0 C. Water was added and the mixture was warmed to room temperature and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 60 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as an oil. Yield 1.0 g 4.7 mmol 71 . LCMS m z 212.1 M H .

rel 3R 3aR 5R 5 Cyclopropyl 3 methoxymethyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C38 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of rel 3aR 5R 7aS 5 cyclopropyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C19 in Example 2. The product was obtained as an oil. Yield 0.85 g 2.6 mmol 55 . LCMS m z 326.2 M H .

Zinc powder 2.22 g 34.0 mmol was added to a solution of rel 3R 3aR 5R 7aS 5 cyclopropyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl 3 methoxymethyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C39 850 mg 2.61 mmol in acetic acid 9 mL and the resulting mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and stir for 5 hours. The mixture was filtered through Celite and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as an oil. Yield 845 mg 2.58 mmol 99 . LCMS m z 328.2 M H .

Conversion of rel 1R 1 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 cyclopropyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl 2 methoxyethanol C40 to the product was carried out via the method described for synthesis of N 3S 4R 6R 6 benzyloxy methyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 hydroxymethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 yl carbamothioylbenzamide C7 in Preparation P1. In this case purification was effected via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 60 ethyl acetate in heptane affording the product as a solid. Yield 0.55 g 1.1 mmol 43 .

rel N 3S 4R 6R 6 Cyclopropyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 1R 1 hydroxy 2 methoxyethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ylcarbamothioyl benzamide C41 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 benzyloxy methyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C8 in Preparation P1 except that the reaction was warmed to room temperature and allowed to proceed for 18 hours before work up. The product was obtained as a solid. Yield 17 mg 36 mol 51 . LCMS m z 473.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 8.24 br d J 7 Hz 2H 7.49 7.54 m 1H 7.36 7.48 m 3H 6.83 6.95 m 2H 4.09 br d J 12 Hz 1H 3.82 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.62 3.69 m 1H 3.37 3.45 m 2H 3.34 s 3H 3.09 3.16 m 1H 2.94 ddd J 10.9 8.2 2.3 Hz 1H 1.80 1.92 m 1H 1.68 1.76 m 1H 0.50 0.61 m 2H 0.40 0.47 m 1H 0.24 0.31 m 1H .

Conversion of rel N 4S 4aR 6R 8aS 6 cyclopropyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 methoxymethyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C42 to the free base of the product was carried out via the method described for synthesis of 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 oxetan 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 4 in Example 4. In this case purification was effected using silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane affording an oil. This was dissolved in dichloromethane and treated with a 1 M solution of hydrogen chloride in diethyl ether removal of volatiles under reduced pressure provided the product as a solid. Yield 8.6 mg 21 mol 58 . LCMS m z 369.2 M H . H NMR free base of 5 400 MHz CDCl 7.33 ddd J 9.0 9.0 6.6 Hz 1H 6.74 6.87 m 2H 4.03 dd J 10.9 2.3 Hz 1H 3.80 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.58 3.65 m 1H 3.32 3.39 m 2H 3.30 s 3H 2.79 2.87 m 2H 1.63 1.74 m 1H 1.50 1.57 m 1H 0.91 1.04 m 1H 0.47 0.61 m 2H 0.38 0.46 m 1H 0.19 0.27 m 1H .

N Difluoro sulfanylidene N ethylethanaminium tetrafluoroborate XtalFluor E 766 mg 3.35 mmol was added to a solution of triethylamine trihydrofluoride 727 L 4.46 mmol in dichloromethane 11 mL . rel 3R 3aR 5R 5 Cyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazol 3 yl methanol C37 440 mg 2.23 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. Aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added and the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes then extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as an oil. Yield 180 mg 0.904 mmol 41 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.63 ddd half of ABX pattern J 47.4 10.4 3.5 Hz 1H 4.62 br d J 13.3 Hz 1H 4.54 ddd half of ABX pattern J 46.7 10.3 4.2 Hz 1H 4.32 dddd J 20.2 10.3 3.9 3.8 Hz 1H 4.10 dd J 13.4 1.2 Hz 1H 3.28 br ddd J 11 11 6.5 Hz 1H 2.81 ddd J 11.0 7.9 1.9 Hz 1H 2.25 ddd J 12.8 6.5 1.7 Hz 1H 1.61 1.72 m 1H 0.85 0.94 m 1H 0.47 0.59 m 2H 0.34 0.41 m 1H 0.18 0.25 m 1H .

Conversion of rel 3R 3aR 5R 5 cyclopropyl 3 fluoromethyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C43 to the product was carried out using the method described for synthesis of rel 3aR 5R 7aS 5 cyclopropyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C19 in Example 2. The product was obtained as an oil. Yield 0.10 g 0.32 mmol 64 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.93 ddd J 9 9 7 Hz 1H 6.90 br ddd J 9 8 2 Hz 1H 6.80 ddd J 12 8.6 2.5 Hz 1H 6.45 s 1H 4.12 4.21 m 1H 3.60 3.95 m 4H 3.09 br dd J 9 9 Hz 1H 2.88 br dd J 10 9 Hz 1H 2.18 br dd J 14 7.5 Hz 1H 1.63 1.75 m 1H 0.88 0.98 m 1H 0.52 0.64 m 2H 0.37 0.46 m 1H 0.24 0.33 m 1H .

rel 3R 3aR 5R 7aS 5 Cyclopropyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl 3 fluoromethyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C44 was converted to the product using the chemistry described for synthesis of 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C6 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as an oil. Yield 0.17 g 0.54 mmol 99 . LCMS m z 316.2 M H .

Conversion of rel 1R 1 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 cyclopropyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl 2 fluoroethanol C45 to the product was carried out according to the method described for synthesis of N 3S 4R 6R 6 cyclopropyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 1S 1 hydroxyethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ylcarbamothioyl benzamide C30 in Example 3. The product was obtained as a solid. Yield 155 mg 0.324 mmol 60 . LCMS m z 479.2 M H .

rel N 3S 4R 6R 6 Cyclopropyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 1R 2 fluoro 1 hydroxyethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ylcarbamothioyl benzamide C46 was converted to the product using the chemistry described for synthesis of N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 benzyloxy methyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C8 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as an oil. Yield 36 mg 78 mol 65 . LCMS m z 461.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.21 br d J 7.2 Hz 2H 7.50 7.56 m 1H 7.43 7.49 m 2H 7.39 ddd J 9.0 9.0 6.3 Hz 1H 6.86 6.96 m 2H 4.61 ddd half of ABX pattern J 46.9 9.5 7.8 Hz 1H 4.44 ddd half of ABX pattern J 46.2 9.5 6.6 Hz 1H 4.10 dd J 12.1 1.8 Hz 1H 3.82 d J 12.3 Hz 1H 3.47 3.56 m 1H 3.16 3.23 m 1H 2.94 ddd J 11.0 8.0 2.5 Hz 1H 1.81 1.93 m 1H 1.75 1.81 m 1H 0.95 1.04 m 1H 0.51 0.62 m 2H 0.40 0.47 m 1H 0.24 0.31 m 1H .

Hydrazine monohydrate 69 L 1.4 mmol was added to a solution of rel N 4S 4aR 6R 8aS 6 cyclopropyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 fluoromethyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C47 60 mg 0.13 mmol in ethanol 2.6 mL and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 1 hour. Volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane then separated into its enantiomers via supercritical fluid chromatography Column Chiral Technologies Chiralcel OJ H 5 m Eluent 85 15 carbon dioxide methanol containing 0.2 ammonia . The first eluting enantiomer was the free base of compound 6. This material was dissolved in dichloromethane and treated with 1 M hydrogen chloride in diethyl ether concentration in vacuo provided hydrochloride salt 6 as a solid. The indicated absolute stereochemistry was assigned on the basis of the biological activity of compound 6 its enantiomer C48 below proved inactive upon similar testing see Table 3 . Yield 28 mg assumed 65 mol 50 . Free base of 6 LCMS m z 357.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.33 ddd J 9.0 9.0 6.7 Hz 1H 6.86 dddd J 8.8 7.7 2.7 0.8 Hz 1H 6.80 ddd J 12.4 8.6 2.6 Hz 1H 4.57 ddd J 46.8 9.4 7.1 Hz 1H 4.36 ddd J 46.6 9.4 6.9 Hz 1H 4.03 dd J 11.0 2.5 Hz 1H 3.81 br d J 11.1 Hz 1H 3.42 3.51 m 1H 2.93 br ddd J 12.0 4.0 4.0 Hz 1H 2.83 ddd J 11.0 8.3 2.5 Hz 1H 1.63 1.75 m 1H 1.57 ddd J 13.1 4.2 2.7 Hz 1H 0.93 1.03 m 1H 0.48 0.61 m 2H 0.39 0.46 m 1H 0.20 0.27 m 1H . Compound 6 H NMR 600 MHz DMSO d 7.92 br s 3H 7.30 7.40 m 2H 7.22 7.27 m 1H 4.79 ddd J 46 10 5 Hz 1H 4.61 4.73 m 1H 3.82 3.91 m 2H 3.51 3.59 m 1H 3.19 3.24 m 1H 3.00 3.05 m 1H 1.77 1.82 m 1H 1.43 1.51 m 1H 0.90 0.97 m 1H 0.44 0.51 m 2H 0.33 0.38 m 1H 0.27 0.31 m 1H .

The second eluting enantiomer was converted to its hydrochloride salt in the same manner and the resulting solid was assigned as 4R 4aS 6S 8aR 6 cyclopropyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 fluoromethyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine hydrochloride salt C48 . Yield 29 mg assumed 65 mol 50 . Free base of C48 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.33 ddd J 9.0 9.0 6.6 Hz 1H 6.83 6.89 m 1H 6.80 ddd J 12.4 8.6 2.5 Hz 1H 4.57 ddd J 46.8 9.4 7.0 Hz 1H 4.36 ddd J 46.7 9.4 6.9 Hz 1H 4.03 dd J 11.0 2.5 Hz 1H 3.81 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 3.42 3.51 m 1H 2.92 br ddd J 12.0 4 4 Hz 1H 2.83 ddd J 11.1 8.3 2.5 Hz 1H 1.63 1.75 m 1H 1.57 ddd J 13.2 4.2 2.6 Hz 1H 0.93 1.03 m 1H 0.48 0.61 m 2H 0.38 0.46 m 1H 0.20 0.27 m 1H . Compound C48 H NMR 600 MHz DMSO d 7.93 br s 3H 7.30 7.40 m 2H 7.22 7.27 m 1H 4.73 4.85 m 1H 4.61 4.73 m 1H 3.81 3.91 m 2H 3.51 3.58 m 1H 3.18 3.23 m 1H 2.99 3.04 m 1H 1.76 1.82 m 1H 1.44 1.51 m 1H 0.90 0.97 m 1H 0.44 0.50 m 2H 0.33 0.37 m 1H 0.27 0.31 m 1H .

 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 1 methylcyclopropyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine 7 

To a solution of 1 methylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid C49 30 g 300 mmol in dichloromethane 500 mL was added 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 51 g 315 mmol portion wise not allowing the temperature to exceed 25 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. N O Dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 34.8 g 357 mmol was added in one portion and stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. The mixture was washed with water 2 200 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give crude product as a colorless oil which was directly used in the next step. Yield 49 g 342 mmol 114 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.69 s 3H 3.20 s 3H 1.34 s 3H 1.01 dd J 6.4 4.4 Hz 2H 0.53 dd J 6.4 4.4 Hz 2H .

To a solution of N methoxy N 1 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamide C50 18 g 0.126 mol in tetrahydrofuran 360 mL was added a solution of allylmagnesium bromide 1.0 M in diethyl ether 500 mL 0.5 mol drop wise at 60 C. The mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 1 hour then was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 50 mL . The reaction was extracted with dichloromethane 2 500 mL the organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 200 mL dried and concentrated in vacuo to give the product as a yellow oil which was used directly in the next step.

To a suspension of lithium aluminum hydride 7.17 g 189 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 200 mL at 78 C. was added drop wise a solution of 1 1 methylcyclopropyl but 3 en 1 one C51 15.6 g 126 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 100 mL . After the addition the mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 0.5 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 7 mL at 78 C. then dichloromethane 100 mL was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 hours. The mixture was filtered the filter cake was washed with dichloromethane 2 150 mL and the combined filtrates were dried and concentrated in vacuo to give crude product purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 4 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 12 g 95 mmol 76 over 2 steps. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.68 5.90 m 1H 5.07 5.17 m 2H 2.92 dd J 13.2 4.4 Hz 1H 2.25 2.40 m 2H 1.06 s 3H 0.38 0.45 m 2H 0.30 0.36 m 2H .

A solution of 1 1 methylcyclopropyl but 3 en 1 ol C52 6.0 g 47.6 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 50 mL was added to a 0 C. suspension of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 7.7 g 190.5 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 200 mL . After stirring at room temperature for 10 minutes 2 bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 97 37.5 g 190.5 mmol was added drop wise at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated to 75 C. for 24 hours. It was then cooled to 0 C. slowly quenched with water 200 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 500 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil.

A mixture of 1 1 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl but 3 en 1 yl 1 methylcyclopropane C53 30 37.2 g 154 mmol aqueous hydrochloric acid 2 M 116 mL 232 mmol and tetrahydrofuran 220 mL was stirred at 55 C. for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated to remove tetrahydrofuran. The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 3 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo 900 mbar 60 C. to afford the product as a colorless oil 27.7 g which contained residual diethyl ether and tetrahydrofuran by H NMR analysis. This material was taken directly into the following step.

 1 1 Methylcyclopropyl but 3 en 1 yl oxyacetaldehyde C54 27.7 g from the previous step 165 mmol was dissolved in a 2 1 mixture of ethanol and water 39 mL . Sodium acetate 63.1 g 770 mmol was added after the reaction mixture had been stirred for 15 minutes hydroxylamine hydrochloride 98 32.1 g 462 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was heated to 60 C. for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove ethanol and extracted with dichloromethane 2 140 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo at 22 C. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 12 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a colorless oil. By H NMR analysis this material consisted of a roughly 1 1 mixture of E and Z oxime isomers. Yield 4.1 g 22.4 mmol 48 over two steps. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.49 t J 5.6 Hz and 6.91 t J 3.6 Hz total 1H 5.82 5.92 m 1H 5.00 5.10 m 2H 4.52 dd half of ABX pattern J 16.4 3.2 Hz and 4.35 dd half of ABX pattern J 16.4 3.6 Hz and 4.27 dd half of ABX pattern J 13.2 5.6 Hz and 4.09 dd half of ABX pattern J 12.8 6.0 Hz total 2H 2.59 2.64 m 1H 2.25 2.45 m 2H 1.02 s 3H 0.42 0.56 m 2H 0.18 0.29 m 2H .

An aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite 6.15 solution 65 mL 51 mmol was added drop wise over 24 minutes to a solution of N hydroxy 2 1 1 methylcyclopropyl but 3 en 1 yl oxyethanimine C55 6.54 g 36 mmol and triethylamine 280 mg 2.7 mmol in dichloromethane 64 mL that was immersed in a room temperature water bath. The rate of addition was adjusted to maintain the internal temperature of the reaction between 19.5 C. and 22.8 C. After completion of the addition the reaction mixture was diluted with water 50 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo 300 mbar 40 C. . Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a white solid. Yield 3.84 g 21.2 mmol 57 . The indicated relative stereochemistry of compound C56 was assigned based on nuclear Overhauser enhancement studies which revealed an interaction between the methine protons on carbons 3a and 5. LCMS m z 182 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.73 d J 13.2 Hz 1H 4.64 dd J 10.4 8.0 Hz 1H 4.14 d J 14.1 Hz 1H 3.81 dd J 11.6 8.0 Hz 1H 3.44 3.39 m 1H 2.82 d J 12.8 Hz 1H 2.21 2.15 m 1H 1.76 q J 11.9 Hz 1H 1.05 s 3H 0.55 0.51 m 1H 0.44 0.41 m 2H 0.40 0.39 m 1H .

Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 7.86 g 25.9 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of rel 3aR 5R 5 1 methylcyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C56 4.255 g 23.5 mmol in toluene 500 mL at an internal temperature of 72.5 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 73 C. to 76 C. for 30 minutes then treated with 2 4 difluoro 1 iodobenzene 98 6.22 g 25.9 mmol in one portion. While the reaction temperature was maintained below 73 C. n butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 9.9 mL 24.8 mmol was added in a drop wise manner over 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at 73 C. to 75 C. for 1.5 hours then was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 350 mL at 74 C. and allowed to warm to room temperature. The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 400 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with additional ethyl acetate 250 mL and 100 mL the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 3.2 g 10.8 mmol 46 . LCMS m z 296 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.92 q J 8.3 Hz 1H 6.88 dt J 8.4 2.4 Hz 1H 6.78 ddd J 11.6 8.8 2.4 Hz 1H 6.28 br s 1H 4.04 dd J 12.4 1.6 Hz 1H 3.82 d J 12.8 Hz 1H 3.72 d J 6.8 Hz 1H 3.53 dd J 6.8 4.8 Hz 1H 3.01 3.06 m 1H 2.95 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 1.83 dd J 13.2 6.0 Hz 1H 1.62 q J 12.4 Hz 1H 1.09 s 3H 0.52 0.56 m 1H 0.43 0.48 m 1H 0.36 0.41 m 1H 0.28 0.33 m 1H .

rel 3aR 5R 7aS 7a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 5 1 methylcyclopropyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C57 1.48 g 5.00 mmol was converted to the product according to the method described for the synthesis of 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C6 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as a dark oil 2.2 g which was taken directly to the following step without additional purification.

Benzoyl isothiocyanate 0.98 g 6.00 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of rel 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 5 2 4 difluorophenyl 2 1 methylcyclopropyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C58 2.20 g 5.00 mmol in dichloromethane 60 mL . After the reaction mixture had stirred at room temperature for 15 hours it was partitioned between aqueous hydrochloric acid 0.1 M 20 mL and dichloromethane 35 mL . The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 25 mL and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 25 mL then dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 15 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a brown solid. Yield 1.1 g 2.39 mmol 48 .

rel N 3S 4R 6R 3 2 4 Difluorophenyl 4 hydroxymethyl 6 1 methylcyclopropyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 yl carbamothioylbenzamide C59 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 benzyloxy methyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C8 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as a white solid. Yield 1.1 g 16.8 mmol. LCMS m z 443 M H .

rel N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 1 methylcyclopropyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C60 1.1 g 2.4 mmol was combined with ethanol 60 mL and hydrazine 50 in water 1.1 g 16.8 mmol and stirred at room temperature for 20 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and purified by recrystallization from methanol to provide the racemic product which was separated into its enantiomers using supercritical fluid chromatography Column Chiralcel OD H 5 m Eluent 9 1 carbon dioxide methanol . The first eluting enantiomer provided the product as a pale yellow solid. The indicated absolute stereochemistry was assigned to compound 7 on the basis of this compound s biological activity its enantiomer C61 below proved essentially inactive see Table 3 . Yield 230 mg 0.678 mmol 28 . LCMS m z 339 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.30 7.36 m 1H 6.91 6.97 m 2H 4.02 dd J 10.9 2.3 Hz 1H 3.67 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.02 dd J 11.5 2.1 Hz 1H 2.82 2.88 m 2H 2.64 2.68 m 1H 1.88 1.98 m 1H 1.49 1.54 m 1H 1.06 s 3H 0.46 0.54 m 2H 0.29 0.33 m 1H 0.22 0.26 m 1H .

The second eluting enantiomer also obtained as a pale yellow solid was assigned as 4aS 6S 8aR 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 1 methylcyclopropyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine C61 . Yield 230 mg 0.678 mmol 28 . LCMS m z 339 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.31 7.37 m 1H 6.93 6.98 m 2H 4.02 dd J 10.9 2.3 Hz 1H 3.68 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 3.03 dd J 11.7 2.3 Hz 1H 2.83 2.89 m 2H 2.67 dd J 12.3 3.7 Hz 1H 1.89 1.99 m 1H 1.50 1.55 m 1H 1.07 s 3H 0.47 0.57 m 2H 0.29 0.34 m 1H 0.23 0.27 m 1H .

To a solution of 2 cyclopropylacetic acid C62 30 g 300 mmol in dichloromethane 800 mL was added 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 54 g 333 mmol portion wise not allowing the temperature to exceed 25 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. N O Dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 30 g 308 mmol was added in one portion and stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The mixture was washed with water 2 200 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give crude product as a yellow oil which was directly used in the next step. Yield 48 g 336 mmol 112 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.62 s 3H 3.12 s 3H 2.30 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.03 1.06 m 1H 0.48 0.52 m 2H 0.11 0.13 m 2H .

To a solution of 2 cyclopropyl N methoxy N methylacetamide C63 48 g 0.3 mol in tetrahydrofuran 900 mL was added a solution of allylmagnesium bromide 1.0 M in diethyl ether 1.5 L 1.5 mol drop wise at 60 C. The mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 1 hour then was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 120 mL . The reaction was extracted with dichloromethane 2 500 mL and the organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 500 mL dried and concentrated in vacuo to give the product as a yellow oil which was used directly in the following step.

To a suspension of lithium aluminium hydride 17.1 0.45 mol in tetrahydrofuran 700 mL at 78 C. was added drop wise a solution of 1 cyclopropylpent 4 en 2 one C64 38 g 0.3 mol in tetrahydrofuran 100 mL . After the addition the mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 20 mL at 78 C. then dichloromethane 200 mL was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 hours. The mixture was filtered the filter cake was washed with dichloromethane 2 200 mL and the combined filtrates were dried and concentrated in vacuo to give crude product purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 16 g 127 mmol 43 over 2 steps. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.81 5.87 m 1H 5.01 5.14 m 2H 3.75 m 1H 2.30 2.34 m 1H 2.18 2.23 m 1H 1.34 1.43 m 2H 0.68 0.80 m 1H 0.39 0.49 m 2H 0.02 0.15 m 2H .

A solution of 1 cyclopropylpent 4 en 2 ol C65 16 g 0.127 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 200 mL was added to a 0 C. suspension of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 15.2 g 0.38 mol in tetrahydrofuran 400 mL . After stirring at room temperature for 10 minutes 2 bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 97 75 g 0.38 mol was added drop wise at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated to 70 C. for 24 hours. It was then cooled to 0 C. slowly quenched with water 200 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 500 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 20 g 83 mmol 65 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.79 5.89 m 1H 5.04 dt J 14.0 1.6 Hz 2H 4.60 t J 5.2 Hz 1H 3.64 3.73 m 2H 3.51 3.62 m 4H 3.45 quintet J 6.0 Hz 1H 2.31 t J 6.4 Hz 1H 1.50 quintet J 6.8 Hz 1H 1.20 1.30 m 2H 1.21 dt J 6.8 1.2 Hz 6H 0.72 0.80 m 1H 0.38 0.49 m 2H 0.02 0.10 m 2H .

A mixture of 2 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl pent 4 en 1 yl cyclopropane C66 20 g 83 mmol aqueous hydrochloric acid 2 M 83 mL 166 mmol and tetrahydrofuran 250 mL was stirred at reflux for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated to remove tetrahydrofuran. The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 3 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as a colorless oil 17 g . This material was taken directly into the following step.

 1 Cyclopropylpent 4 en 2 yl oxy acetaldehyde C67 17 g from the previous step 83 mmol was dissolved in a 2 1 mixture of ethanol and water 450 mL . Sodium acetate 41 g 500 mmol was added after the reaction mixture had been stirred for 15 minutes hydroxylamine hydrochloride 98 21 g 300 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was heated to 60 C. for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove ethanol and extracted with dichloromethane 3 140 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo at 22 C. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a colorless oil. By H NMR analysis this material consisted of a roughly 1 1 mixture of E and Z oxime isomers. Yield 10 g 55 mmol 49.6 over two steps.

An aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite 6.15 solution 100 mL 78.6 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of 1E 2 1 cyclopropylpent 4 en 2 yl oxy N hydroxyethanimine C68 10 g 55 mmol and triethylamine 0.47 mL 3.4 mmol in dichloromethane 200 mL that was immersed in a room temperature water bath. The rate of addition was adjusted to maintain the internal temperature of the reaction between 19.5 C. and 22.8 C. After completion of the addition the reaction mixture was diluted with water 50 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a yellow oil. Yield 3.8 g 21 mmol 39 . The indicated relative stereochemistry of compound C69 was assigned based on nuclear Overhauser enhancement studies which revealed an interaction between the methine protons on carbons 3a and 5. LCMS m z 182 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.69 d J 13.6 Hz 1H 4.62 dd J 10.0 8.0 Hz 1H 4.19 d J 12.8 Hz 1H 3.73 3.80 m 1H 3.54 3.58 m 1H 3.47 3.40 m 1H 2.30 dd J 12.8 6.4 Hz 1H 1.64 quintet J 6.8 Hz 1H 1.49 q J 11.7 Hz 1H 1.20 1.29 m 1H 0.75 0.79 m 1H 0.44 0.51 m 2H 0.03 0.11 m 2H .

Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 5.4 g 17.9 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of rel 3aR 5S 5 cyclopropylmethyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C69 2.7 g 14.9 mmol in toluene 100 mL at an internal temperature of 72.5 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 73 C. to 76 C. for 30 minutes then treated with 2 4 difluoro 1 iodobenzene 98 4.3 g 17.9 mmol in one portion. While the reaction temperature was maintained below 73 C. n butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 6.0 mL 14.9 mmol was added in a drop wise manner over 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at 73 C. to 75 C. for 1.5 hours then was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 10 mL at 74 C. and allowed to warm to room temperature. The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 300 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with additional ethyl acetate 250 mL and 100 mL the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 1.85 g 6.25 mmol 42 . LCMS m z 296 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.92 q J 8.3 Hz 1H 6.88 dt J 8.2 2.4 Hz 1H 6.80 dt J 10.4 2.4 Hz 1H 6.31 br s 1H 4.11 dd J 12.8 1.6 Hz 1H 3.80 d J 12.8 Hz 1H 3.70 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 3.61 3.67 m 1H 3.52 3.55 m 1H 3.04 3.09 m 1H 1.94 dd J 14.0 6.8 Hz 1H 1.59 1.67 m 2H 1.45 q J 15.1 Hz 1H 1.25 quintet J 6.9 Hz 1H 0.74 0.85 m 1H 0.45 0.53 m 2H 0.08 0.13 m 2H .

rel 3aR 5S 7aS 5 Cyclopropylmethyl 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C70 1.1 g 4.09 mmol was converted to the product according to the method described for the synthesis of 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C6 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as a dark oil 1.1 g which was taken directly to the following step without additional purification.

Benzoyl isothiocyanate 0.6 g 3.7 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of rel 2S 4R 5S 5 amino 2 cyclopropylmethyl 5 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanol C71 1.10 g 3.7 mmol in dichloromethane 30 mL . After the reaction mixture had stirred at room temperature for 15 hours it was concentrated in vacuo. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a brown solid. Yield 1.14 g 2.47 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 461 M H .

rel N 3S 4R 6S 6 Cyclopropylmethyl 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 hydroxymethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 yl carbamothioylbenzamide C72 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 benzyloxy methyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C8 in Preparation P1. The product was obtained as a white solid. Yield 430 mg 0.97 mmol 39 . LCMS m z 443 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.22 br d J 7.2 Hz 2H 7.50 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.37 7.45 m 3H 6.85 6.94 m 2H 4.13 q J 8.5 Hz 1H 3.77 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 3.67 3.73 m 1H 3.10 3.17 m 1H 3.00 dd J 12.8 3.0 1H 2.64 dd J 12.8 2.8 Hz 1H 1.93 q J 12.4 Hz 1H 1.67 1.77 m 2H 0.84 0.90 m 1H 0.72 0.82 m 1H 0.41 0.48 m 2H 0.04 0.12 m 2H .

rel N 4aR 6S 8aS 6 Cyclopropylmethyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C73 400 mg 0.9 mmol was combined with ethanol 10 mL and hydrazine 50 in water 224 g 7.0 mmol and stirred at room temperature for 20 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and purified by preparative HPLC Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m Mobile phase from 46 acetonitrile in water Ammonia pH 10 to 66 acetonitrile in water Ammonia pH 10 . The racemic product was separated into its enantiomers using supercritical fluid chromatography Column Cellulose 4 Eluent 7 3 carbon dioxide methanol . The first eluting enantiomer provided the product as a white solid. The indicated absolute stereochemistry was assigned to compound 8 on the basis of this compound s biological activity its enantiomer C74 below proved essentially inactive see Table 3 . Yield 55 mg 0.47 mmol 35 . LCMS m z 339 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.30 7.37 m 1H 6.92 6.99 m 2H 4.08 dd J 11.1 2.1 Hz 1H 3.65 3.70 m 2H 2.84 2.91 m 2H 2.63 2.67 m 1H 1.74 dq J 11.8 2.8 Hz 1H 1.58 1.64 m 2H 1.23 ddd J 13.8 7.7 5.9 Hz 1H 0.79 0.87 m 1H 0.43 0.48 m 2H 0.06 0.12 m 2H .

The second eluting enantiomer also obtained as a pale yellow solid was assigned as 4aS 6R 8aR 6 cyclopropylmethyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine C74 . Yield 55 mg 0.47 mmol 35 . LCMS m z 339 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.33 td J 9.1 6.8 Hz 1H 6.91 6.98 m 2H 4.08 dd J 10.9 2.3 Hz 1H 3.64 3.70 m 2H 2.84 2.91 m 2H 2.63 2.67 m 1H 1.74 dq J 11.8 2.8 Hz 1H 1.57 1.64 m 2H 1.22 ddd J 13.9 7.8 5.7 Hz 1H 0.79 0.87 m 1H 0.43 0.48 m 2H 0.06 0.12 m 2H .

Racemic rel 3aR 5R 5 cyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C18 20 g 0.12 mol was separated into its enantiomers using supercritical fluid chromatography Column ChiralPAK AS H 5 m Eluent 9 1 carbon dioxide methanol . The first eluting enantiomer provided 3aS 5S 5 cyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C75 as a pale yellow solid. The indicated absolute stereochemistry was assigned to compound C75 on the basis of the biological activity of this compound s final targets which proved to have very poor activity see Examples 17 18 Table 3 the final targets of its enantiomer C76 below proved active see Examples 9 16 Table 3 . Yield 8.97 g 0.053 mol 44 . GCMS m z 167 M . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.69 d J 13.5 Hz 1H 4.57 ddd J 10.2 7.9 0.7 Hz 1H 4.14 dt J 13.4 1.0 Hz 1H 3.77 dd J 11.8 7.7 Hz 1H 3.39 qd J 11.1 6.7 1H 2.81 ddd J 10.3 8.7 1.4 Hz 1H 2.28 ddd J 13.1 6.5 1.6 Hz 1H 1.64 ddd J 12.8 11.4 11.3 Hz 1H 0.86 0.95 m 1H 0.49 0.61 m 2H 0.36 0.42 m 1H 0.19 0.25 m 1H .

The second eluting enantiomer provided 3aR 5R 5 cyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C76 as a pale yellow solid. Yield 8.75 g 52.3 mmol 44 . GCMS m z 167 M . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.72 d J 13.7 Hz 1H 4.50 dd J 10.3 8 Hz 1H 4.13 dd J 13.7 1.2 Hz 1H 3.79 dd J 11.7 8.2 Hz 1H 3.40 qd J 11.1 6.4 Hz 1H 2.82 ddd J 11.1 8 1.6 Hz 1H 2.29 ddd J 13 6.5 1.6 Hz 1H 1.59 1.67 m 1H 0.93 qt J 8.1 4.9 Hz 1H 0.52 0.63 m 2H 0.38 0.44 m 1H 0.21 0.27 m 1H .

Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 0.134 mL 0.053 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of 3aR 5R 5 cyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C76 or 3aS 5S 5 cyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C75 75 mg 0.45 mmol in toluene 4 mL cooled in a dry ice acetone bath. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 15 minutes then treated with the appropriate aryl halide 0.50 mmol dissolved in toluene 1 mL in one portion. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at 78 C. for 5 minutes followed by addition of tert butyllithium 1.7 M in pentanes 0.581 mL 0.988 mmol in a drop wise manner over 5 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1.5 hours then was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 5 mL at 78 C. and allowed to warm to room temperature. Water 5 mL was added and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 40 mL the combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was carried forward into the next step without purification.

A 3aR 5R 7aS 5 cyclopropyl 7a substituted hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole or 3aS 5S 7aR 5 cyclopropyl 7a substituted hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole was dissolved in acetic acid 3 mL and treated with zinc powder 626 mg 9.58 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. Insoluble material was removed via filtration through an empty Bakerbond 6 mL polypropylene filtration column and the column was washed with ethyl acetate 3 15 mL . The combined filtrates were then concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in methanol 1 mL and the solution was loaded onto an Oasis MCX mix mode polymeric strong cation exchange solid phase extraction cartridge Waters 6 mL 500 mg bed weight . The cartridge was rinsed with dichloromethane 1 4 mL and methanol 1 4 mL . The filtrate was then loaded onto an Oasis MCX solid phase extraction cartridge Waters 6 mL 500 mg bed weight . The cartridge was rinsed with dichloromethane 1 4 mL and methanol 1 4 mL . The crude product was then eluted from each cartridge with a solution of ammonia in methanol 3 N 8.0 mL . The filtrates were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was carried forward without further purification. Yield 29 76 over two steps.

To 2R 4R 5S 5 amino 2 cyclopropyl 5 substituted tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanols or 2S 4S 5R 5 amino 2 cyclopropyl 5 substituted tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methanols 0.088 to 0.338 mmol 1 eq in 2 dram vials was added tetrahydrofuran 5 mL . Ethoxycarbonyl isothiocyanate 0.011 0.4 mL 0.092 0.332 1.05 eq was added neat and the vials were shaken at room temperature for 50 minutes. The solutions were loaded onto a SilaMetS diamine Si dia solid phase extraction cartridge Silicycle 6 mL 500 mg bed weight and the cartridges were rinsed with tetrahydrofuran 4 mL . The filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. The residues were dissolved in a 1 1 1 2 methyltetrahydrofuran water trifluoroacetic acid mixture 5 mL and the vials were shaken at 65 C. for 1.5 hours. Trifluoroacetic acid 1 mL was then added and the vials were shaken at 120 C. for 6 hours. Solvents were removed in vacuo and the residues were partitioned between aqueous half saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 1.5 mL and ethyl acetate 2.5 mL . The organic layers were removed and the aqueous layers were extracted with ethyl acetate 2 2.5 mL . The organics for each individual reaction were combined and passed through solid phase extraction cartridges containing sodium sulfate 6 mL cartridge approximately 1 g bed weight . The filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. The residues were dissolved in a 1 1 1 2 methyltetrahydrofuran water trifluoroacetic acid mixture 5 mL and the vials were shaken at 120 C. for 12 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residues were partitioned between aqueous half saturated sodium bicarbonate 1.5 mL and ethyl acetate 2.5 mL . The organic layers were removed and the aqueous layers were extracted with ethyl acetate 2 2.5 mL . The organics from each individual reaction were combined and passed through solid phase extraction cartridges containing sodium sulfate 6 mL cartridge approximately 1 g bed weight . After concentration in vacuo dissolution in dimethyl sulfoxide 1 mL and filtration through a Waters Oasis filter plate to remove particulates purification was carried out via reversed phase HPLC Example 9 Column Waters XBridge C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in water v v Mobile phase B 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in acetonitrile v v Gradient 20 to 100 B Example 12 Column Waters Sunfire C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in water v v Mobile phase B 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile v v Gradient 5 to 100 B All other examples Column Waters XBridge C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in water v v Mobile phase B 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in acetonitrile v v Gradient 20 to 100 B . See Table 1 and Table 2 for characterization data.

A solution of 4 iodo 2 methylbut 1 ene 942 mg 4.8 mmol in diethyl ether 5 mL was added to a solution of tert butyllithium 1.7 M in pentane 5.65 mL 9.6 mmol in diethyl ether 15 mL at 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 35 minutes and then N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 formyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide P1 400 mg 0.96 mmol in diethyl ether 5 mL and tetrahydrofuran 4 mL was added drop wise over 10 minutes. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 15 minutes then allowed to warm to 0 C. and stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour. The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature then stirred at room temperature for 15 minutes. The mixture was diluted with a saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride 35 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 35 mL . The combined ethyl acetate extracts were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to afford a yellow oil. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 90 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 108 mg 23 . LCMS m z 487.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.22 br d J 6.8 Hz 2H 7.31 7.53 m 4H 6.68 6.96 m 2H 4.72 4.73 m 1H 4.17 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 3.80 3.87 m 1H 3.76 br s 1H 3.61 3.65 m 1H 3.56 br d J 8.2 Hz 1H 3.13 br s 1H 3.03 dd J 12.7 4.1 Hz 1H 2.68 m 1H 2.0 2.29 m 4H 1.74 s 3H 1.59 1.69 m 2H .

Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 21 L 0.98 mmol was added to a solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 1 hydroxy 4 methylpent 4 en 1 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C77 106 mg 0.22 mmol in dichloromethane 7 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 5 minutes then allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for a further 5 hours. The mixture was diluted with water 15 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined ethyl acetate extracts were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to afford a yellow oil. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 90 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. By H NMR analysis this was isolated as a single diastereomer. Yield 30.1 mg 28 . LCMS m z 487.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.24 br d 7.0 Hz 2H 7.37 7.53 m 4H 6.85 6.95 m 2H 4.15 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.90 ap. q J 6.8 Hz 1H 3.79 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 3.53 ddd J 10.1 6.6 3.3 Hz 1H 3.10 3.15 m 1H 3.01 dd J 12.8 4.2 Hz 1H 2.66 dd J 12.7 2.7 Hz 1H 2.03 2.12 m 1H 1.86 1.99 m 3H 1.68 1.78 m 2H 1.27 s 3H 1.22 s 3H .

Methylamine 8.0 M in ethanol 500 L 4.0 mmol was added to a solution of N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 5 5 dimethyltetrahydrofuran 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C78 30 mg 0.062 mmol in ethanol 500 L . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was concentrated to an oil and combined with material derived from a reaction run on 0.01 mmol in a similar manner. Purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 15 methanol in dichloromethane afforded the product as a white solid. By H NMR analysis this product was a single diastereomer. Yield 19.9 mg 72 . LCMS m z 383.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.31 7.37 m 1H 6.93 7.00 m 2H 4.06 dd J 10.9 2.0 Hz 1H 3.89 ap. q J 6.6 Hz 1H 3.69 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.49 3.54 m 1H 2.86 2.91 m 2H 2.66 2.70 m 1H 1.99 2.09 m 2H 1.65 1.78 m 4H 1.26 s 3H 1.23 s 3H .

To a solution of 1R 2R 2 methylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid 44 g 0.44 mol in dichloromethane 600 mL was added 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 79 g 0.45 mol portion wise at 20 C. The reaction was stirred at 25 C. for 2 hours. N O Dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 52 g 0.53 mol was added portion wise and stirring was continued at 25 C. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was washed with water 100 mL . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 2 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a colorless oil. Yield 52 g 363 mmol 82 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.74 s 3H 3.19 s 3H 1.80 1.86 m 1H 1.30 1.38 m 1H 1.17 dt J 8.5 4.3 Hz 1H 1.12 d J 6 Hz 3H 0.64 ddd J 8.2 6.1 3.8 Hz 1H .

To a solution of C79 52.0 g 0.364 mol in tetrahydrofuran 500 mL was added allylmagnesium bromide 1 M in diethyl ether 660 mL 0.66 mol at 70 C. The mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 3 hours. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 600 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 L . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the crude product as a brown oil which was directly in the next step. Yield 45.0 g 0.363 mol 100 .

To a solution of crude C80 45 g in dry tetrahydrofuran 500 mL was added lithium aluminum hydride 16.6 g 0.44 mol portion wise slowly at 70 C. The mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 1 hour. The mixture was slowly quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 400 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 1 L . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 2 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a colorless oil. This material consisted of a 1 1 mixture of diastereomers via H NMR analysis. Yield 27.5 g 218 mmol 60 over 2 steps from C80 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.88 5.92 m 1H 5.08 5.15 m 2H 2.93 3.00 m 1H 2.23 2.42 m 2H 1.66 1.76 m 1H 1.05 d J 6 Hz 1.5H 1.02 d J 5.5 Hz 1.5H 0.70 0.76 m 0.5H 0.57 0.66 m 1.5H 0.45 0.49 m 0.5H 0.33 0.38 m 0.5H 0.23 0.28 m 1H .

To a suspension of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 31 g 0.79 mol in N N dimethylformamide 250 mL was added C81 23.0 g 0.183 mol drop wise and then the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour. 2 Bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 126 g 0.51 mol was added at room temperature and then the reaction mixture was stirred at 140 C. for 2 hours. It was then quenched slowly with water 500 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 1 L . The organic phase was washed with water 2 200 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the crude product as a brown oil which was carried into the next step without additional purification.

To a solution of crude C82 in tetrahydrofuran 780 mL was added aqueous hydrochloric acid 2 M 780 mL 0.78 mol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours then extracted with ethyl acetate 2 L . The organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 3 1 L dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as a pale brown oil that was carried forward without further purification.

To a mixture of crude C83 and sodium acetate 123 g 1.50 mol in ethanol water 2 1 750 mL was added hydroxylamine hydrochloride 62 g 0.90 mol . The reaction was stirred at 60 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was concentrated and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 L . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 2 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a brown oil. Yield 17 g 93 mmol 31 over 3 steps from C81 .

To a mixture of compound C84 16 g 87 mmol and triethylamine 662 mg 6.60 mmol in dichloromethane 350 mL was slowly added bleach 6.15 aqueous sodium hypochlorite 160 mL via an addition funnel. After the addition the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The organic layer was washed with water 3 300 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 2 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a colorless oil. Yield 8.4 g 46 mmol 52 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.65 d J 13.7 Hz 1H 4.52 dd J 10.1 7.8 Hz 1H 4.05 dd J 13.3 1.2 Hz 1H 3.71 dd J 11.7 8.2 Hz 1H 3.32 qd J 11.1 6.4 Hz 1H 2.78 ddd J 10.9 8 1.8 Hz 1H 2.19 ddd J 12.9 6.6 1.6 Hz 1H 1.47 1.58 m 1H 0.99 d J 6.2 Hz 3H 0.69 0.78 m 1H 0.56 tt J 8.4 4.5 Hz 1H 0.29 0.33 m 1H 0.21 dt J 8.6 4.9 Hz 1H .

To a solution of C85 2.58 g 14.2 mmol in toluene 50 mL cooled to 78 C. was added boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 4.23 mL 15.9 mmol drop wise. After stirring for 30 minutes at 78 C. 2 4 difluoro 1 iodobenzene 3.90 g 15.9 mmol was added followed by drop wise addition of n butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 6.04 mL 15.1 mmol . The reaction was stirred at 78 C. for 90 minutes at which point saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 10 mL was added. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and then taken up in ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with water and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and then concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 25 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a colorless oil. Yield 1.25 g 4.23 mmol 30 . LCMS m z 296.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.82 7.88 m 1H 6.79 6.84 m 1H 6.68 6.74 m 1H 3.93 3.97 m 1H 3.72 3.76 m 1H 3.63 3.66 m 1H 3.44 3.48 m 1H 2.83 2.98 m 1H 1.83 1.92 m 1H 1.44 1.59 m 1H 0.99 1.01 m 1H 0.72 0.87 m 1H .

The diastereomeric mixture 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl 5 1R 2R 2 methylcyclopropyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C86 was separated into its diastereomers using supercritical fluid chromatography Column Lux Cellulose 4 5 m Eluent 85 15 carbon dioxide methanol .

The first eluting diastereomer provided 3aS 5S 7aR 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl 5 1R 2R 2 methylcyclopropyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C87 as a colorless oil. Yield 617 mg 2.08 mmol. LCMS m z 296.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.89 7.95 m 1H 6.86 6.90 m 1H 6.78 m 1H 4.02 dd J 12.5 2 Hz 1H 3.82 d J 12.7 Hz 1H 3.71 d J 7 Hz 1H 3.53 dd J 7.1 5 Hz 1H 3.01 dddd J 11.5 6.8 4.9 1.8 Hz 1H 2.89 2.95 m 1H 1.93 ddd J 14.2 6.9 2.2 Hz 1H 1.51 1.61 m 1H 1.08 d J 5.9 Hz 3H 0.77 0.86 m 1H 0.65 tt J 8.4 4.4 Hz 1H 0.40 0.44 m 1H 0.29 dt J 8.5 4.9 Hz 1H .

The second eluting diastereomer provided 3aR 5R 7aS 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl 5 1R 2R 2 methylcyclopropyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C88 as a colorless oil. Yield 362 mg 1.23 mmol LCMS m z 296.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.89 7.95 m 1H 6.86 6.90 m 1H 6.78 ddd J 11.9 8.9 2.5 Hz 1H 4.02 dd J 12.7 2 Hz 1H 3.80 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 3.71 d J 7 Hz 1H 3.53 dd J 7.1 5.0 Hz 1H 3.02 dddd J 11.5 6.7 4.9 1.9 Hz 1H 2.91 2.96 m 1H 1.96 ddd J 14.1 6.9 2.1 Hz 1H 1.56 1.66 m 1H 1.07 d J 5.9 Hz 3H 0.56 0.73 m 3H 0.34 dt J 8 4.8 1H . The indicated absolute stereochemistry was assigned to C88 based on the biological activity of this compound s final target which proved active Table 3 .

To a solution of C88 362 mg 1.23 mmol in acetic acid 4.17 mL was added zinc powder 802 mg 12.3 mmol portion wise. The resulting heterogeneous mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with methanol and filtered through a pad of Celite using additional methanol. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting residue was taken up in ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and with water dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as a clear gum that was carried to the next step without further purification. Yield 338 mg 1.14 mmol 93 . LCMS m z 298.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.62 7.68 m 1H 6.92 6.96 m 1H 6.8 ddd J 12.6 8.5 2.5 Hz 1H 4.10 dd J 11.4 2.6 Hz 1H 3.53 dd J 11.5 2.5 Hz 1H 3.33 3.39 m 2H 2.90 ddd J 11.2 8.2 2.5 Hz 1H 2.04 2.24 m 2H 1.77 1.82 m 1H 1.07 d J 5.9 Hz 3H 0.65 0.77 m 2H 0.6 dt J 8.8 4.6 Hz 1H 0.36 dt J 8 4.8 Hz 1H .

To a solution of C89 330 mg 1.11 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL cooled to 0 C. was added benzoyl isothiocyanate 453 mg 2.78 mmol drop wise. The reaction was allowed to slowly warm to room temperature and stir at that temperature for 72 hours. The reaction mixture was taken up in dichloromethane and the organic layer was washed with water. The organic layer was concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 40 to 60 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white foam. Yield 316 mg 0.69 mmol 62 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD characteristic peaks 7.64 7.97 m 2H 7.63 7.67 m 1H 7.52 7.57 m 2H 7.43 7.50 m 1H 6.86 6.96 m 2H 3.44 3.51 m 1H 3.04 ddd J 11.1 7.9 2.5 Hz 1H 2.08 2.13 m 1H 1.86 1.98 m 1H 1.06 d J 5.9 Hz 3H 0.65 0.77 m 2H 0.60 dt J 8.6 4.5 Hz 1H 0.27 dt J 8.1 4.8 Hz 1H .

To a solution of C90 105 mg 0.23 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL was added Ghosez s reagent 60.9 mg 0.46 mmol drop wise. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was taken up in dichloromethane and the organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and with water dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 10 to 40 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 48 mg 0.11 mmol 48 . LCMS m z 443.3 M H .

To a solution of C91 48 mg 0.11 mmol in ethanol 2 mL was added methylamine 8 M in ethanol 3.0 mL 6.7 mmol . The reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 hours at which point the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide 0.9 mL and purified via reversed phase HPLC. Column Waters XBridge C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in water v v Mobile phase B 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in acetonitrile v v Gradient 20 to 60 B . Yield 24 mg 73 mol 67 . LCMS m z 339.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d characteristic peaks 7.30 7.33 m 1H 7.14 7.18 m 1H 7.07 t J 8.6 Hz 1H 3.78 d J 10.5 Hz 1H 3.50 d J 11 Hz 1H 2.88 2.91 m 1H 2.61 2.69 m 2H . 1.67 1.73 m 1H 1.55 d J 13.2 Hz 1H 0.99 d J 6.1 Hz 3H 0.61 0.67 m 1H 0.53 0.57 m 1H 0.43 0.46 m 1H 0.16 0.18 m 1H .

 2S Tetrahydrofuran 2 carboxylic acid was converted to the product using the method described for the synthesis of 1R 2R N methoxy N 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamide C79 in Example 20. The resulting product was used in the next step without further purification. Yield 24.6 g 0.153 mol 90 .

 2S N Methoxy N methyltetrahydrofuran 2 carboxamide C92 was converted to the product using the method described for the synthesis of 1 1R 2R 2 methylcyclopropyl but 3 en 1 one C80 in Example 20. The resulting product was used in the next step without further purification. Yield 19 g 0.14 mol 87 .

To a solution of crude C93 19 g 0.14 mol in anhydrous ethanol 300 mL at 0 C. was added sodium borohydride 11.4 g 0.30 mol portion wise. After the addition the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and the residue was taken up in water 200 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 200 mL and concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as a yellow oil which was used in the next step without further purification. Yield 16.0 g 1.112 mol 30 .

To a solution of crude C94 16.0 g 1.112 mol in tetrahydrofuran 600 mL at 0 C. was added sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 13.5 g 0.33 mol portion wise. After addition was complete the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir at that temperature for 30 minutes. 2 Bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 83 g 0.33 mol was added and the reaction was refluxed for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and poured into ice water 100 mL . The aqueous layer was washed with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL and the organic phases were combined and washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 200 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 1 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided 2S 2 1R 1 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl but 3 en 1 yl tetrahydrofuran as the first eluting isomer and 2S 2 1S 1 2 2 diethoxyethoxyl but 3 en 1 yl tetrahydrofuran as the second eluting isomer both as yellow oils.

 2S 2 1R 1 2 2 Diethoxyethoxyl but 3 en 1 yl tetrahydrofuran C95 . Yield 5.8 g 22.5 mmol 15 over 4 steps from 2S tetrahydrofuran 2 carboxylic acid. The indicated absolute stereochemistry was assigned to C95 based on the biological activity of this compound s final target which proved active Table 3 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.83 5.93 m 1H 5.03 5.11 m 2H 4.56 4.59 m 1H 3.81 3.89 m 2H 3.51 3.75 m 7H 3.42 3.46 m 1H 2.26 2.30 m 2H 1.81 1.93 m 4H 1.19 1.22 m 6H .

 2S 2 1S 1 2 2 Diethoxyethoxy but 3 en 1 yl tetrahydrofuran C96 . Yield 7.1 g 27.5 mmol 18 over 4 steps from 2S Tetrahydrofuran 2 carboxylic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.83 5.95 m 1H 5.02 5.11 m 2H 5.59 5.62 m 1H 3.81 3.90 m 2H 3.53 3.77 m 7H 3.31 3.36 m 1H 2.24 2.36 m 1H 1.78 1.95 m 3H 1.64 1.73 m 2H 1.19 1.22 m 6H .

 2S 2 1R 1 2 2 Diethoxyethoxyl but 3 en 1 yl tetrahydrofuran C95 was converted to the product using the method described for the synthesis of 1 1R 2R 2 methylcyclopropyl but 3 en 1 yloxy acetaldehyde C83 in Example 20. The resulting product was used in the next step without further purification. Yield 6 g 33 mmol 35 .

 1R 1 2S Tetrahydrofuran 2 yl but 3 en 1 yloxy acetaldehyde C97 was converted to the product using the method described for the synthesis of N hydroxy 2 1 1R 2R 2 methylcyclopropyl but 3 en 1 yloxy ethanimine C84 in Example 20. Yield 4.7 g 23.6 mmol 65 over 2 steps from C95 .

N Hydroxy 2 1R 1 2S tetrahydrofuran 2 yl but 3 en 1 yloxy ethanimine C98 was converted to the product using the method described for the synthesis of 5 1R 2R 2 methylcyclopropyl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C85 in Example 20. Yield 2.6 g 13 mmol 54 . LCMS m z 198.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.73 d J 13.1 Hz 1H 4.61 dd J 10.0 8.0 Hz 1H 4.19 dd J 13.6 1 Hz 1H 3.72 3.89 m 4H 3.38 3.48 m 2H 2.35 ddd J 12.9 6.4 1.3 Hz 1H 1.78 2.02 m 4H 1.44 1.53 m 1H .

 3aR 5R 5 2S Tetrahydrofuran 2 yl 3 3a 4 5 tetrahydro 7H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C99 was converted to the product using the method described for the synthesis of 7a 2 4 difluorophenyl 5 1R 2R 2 methylcyclopropyl hexahydro 1H pyrano 3 4 c 1 2 oxazole C86 in Example 20. Yield 1.4 g 4.5 mmol 36 . LCMS m z 312.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.89 7.95 m 1H 6.87 6.91 m 1H 6.77 6.83 m 1H 6.29 s 1H 4.10 dd J 12.5 1.5 Hz 1H 3.72 3.92 m 5H 3.53 3.57 m 2H 3.07 dt J 11.4 5.6 Hz 1H 1.79 2.03 m 5H 1.46 1.55 m 1H .

To a solution of C100 1.20 g 3.85 mmol in acetonitrile water 15 1 30 mL was added molybdenum hexacarbonyl 1.10 g 4.16 mmol in one portion and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 30 minutes. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature at which point sodium borohydride 146 mg 3.85 mmol was added in one portion and the reaction was stirred at reflux for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature filtered through a pad of Celite and washed with ethyl acetate 30 mL . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to provide the crude product as a dark oil that was used in the subsequent step without further purification. Yield 1.3 g 4.1 mmol 107 .

 2R 4R 5S 5 Amino 5 2 4 difluorophenyl 2 2S tetrahydrofuran 2 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylmethanol C101 was converted to the product using the method described for the synthesis of N 3S 4R 6R 3 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 hydroxymethyl 6 1R 2R 2 methylcyclopropyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ylcarbamothioyl benzamide C90 in Example 20. Yield 1.3 g 2.7 mmol 70 over 2 steps from C100 . LCMS m z 477.2 M H .

N 3S 4R 6R 3 2 4 Difluorophenyl 4 hydroxymethyl 6 2S tetrahydrofuran 2 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ylcarbamothioyl benzamide C102 was converted to the product using the method described for the synthesis of N 4aR 6R 8aS 6 benzyloxy methyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 yl benzamide C8 in Preparation P1. Yield 1.0 g 2.2 mmol 87 . LCMS m z 458.9 M H .

N 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 Difluorophenyl 6 2S tetrahydrofuran 2 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 ylbenzamide C103 was converted to the product using the method described for the synthesis of 4S 4aR 6R 8aS 6 cyclopropyl 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 fluoromethyl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine hydrochloride salt 6 in Example 6. Purification by reversed phase HPLC Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m Gradient 36 to 56 acetonitrile in water ammonia pH 10 provided the product as a white solid. Yield 193 mg 0.545 mmol 25 . LCMS m z 355.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.31 7.37 m 1H 6.75 6.87 m 2H 4.06 dd J 11 2.0 Hz 1H 3.73 3.90 m 4H 3.51 ddd J 10.8 6.5 2.3 Hz 1H 2.95 dd J 12.0 4.0 Hz 1H 2.83 2.89 m 1H 2.60 dd J 12.3 2.3 Hz 1H 1.97 2.05 m 1H 1.73 1.94 m 4H 1.64 1.69 m 1H .

Beta secretase BACE is one of the enzymes involved in the generation of the amyloid beta peptide found in the amyloid plaques of Alzheimer s Disease patients. This assay measures the inhibition of the beta secretase enzyme as it cleaves a non native peptide.

A synthetic APP substrate that can be cleaved by beta secretase having N terminal biotin and made fluorescent by the covalent attachment of Oregon Green at the Cys residue is used to assay beta secretase activity in the presence or absence of the inhibitory compounds. The substrate is Biotin GLTNIKTEEISEISY EVEFR C Oregon Green KK OH. The BACE1 enzyme is affinity purified material from conditioned media of CHO K1 cells that have been transfected with a soluble BACE construct BACE1deltaTM96His . Compounds are incubated in a log dose response curve from a top concentration of 100 M with BACE1 enzyme and the biotinylated fluorescent peptide in 384 well black plates Thermo Scientific 4318 . BACE1 is at a final concentration of 0.1 nM with a final concentration of peptide substrate of 150 nM in a reaction volume of 30 L assay buffer 100 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 brought to pH with acetic acid and 0.001 Tween 20 . Plates are covered and incubated for 3 hours at 37 C. The reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 L of 1.5 M Streptavidin Pierce 21125 . After a 10 minute incubation at room temperature plates are read on a PerkinElmer EnVision for fluorescence polarization Ex485 nm Em530 nm . The activity of the beta secretase enzyme is detected by changes in the fluorescence polarization that occur when the substrate is cleaved by the enzyme. Incubation in the presence of compound inhibitor demonstrates specific inhibition of beta secretase enzymatic cleavage of the synthetic APP substrate.

H4 human neuroglioma cells over expressing the wild type human APPare treated for 18 hours with compound in cell growth media having a final concentration 1 DMSO. sAPP . levels are measured using either TMB ELISA or Pierce SuperSignal ELISA Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate Pierce 37069 with capture APP N terminal antibody Affinity BioReagents OMA1 03132 wild type sAPP . specific reporter p192 Elan and tertiary anti rabbit HRP GE Healthcare .

This assay measures the inhibition of the BACE2 enzyme as it cleaves a non native peptide. A synthetic substrate that can be cleaved by BACE2 having N terminal biotin and made fluorescent by the covalent attachment of Oregon Green at the Cys residue is used to assay BACE2 activity in the presence or absence of the inhibitory compounds. The substrate is Biotin KEISEISYEVEFR C Oregon green KK OH. The BACE2 enzyme is available from Enzo Life Sciences Cat BML SE550 . Compounds are incubated in a log dose response curve from a top concentration of 100 M with BACE2 enzyme and the biotinylated fluorescent peptide in 384 well black plates Thermo Scientific 4318 . BACE2 is at a final concentration of 2.5 nM with a final concentration of peptide substrate of 150 nM in a reaction volume of 30 L assay buffer 100 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 brought to pH with acetic acid and 0.001 Tween 20 . Plates are covered and incubated for 3 hours at 37 C. The reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 L of 1.5 M Streptavidin Pierce 21125 . After a 10 minute incubation at room temperature plates are read on a PerkinElmer EnVision for fluorescence polarization Ex485 nm Em530 nm . The activity of the beta secretase enzyme is detected by changes in the fluorescence polarization that occur when the substrate is cleaved by the enzyme. Incubation in the presence of compound inhibitor demonstrates specific inhibition of BACE2 enzymatic cleavage of the synthetic substrate.

