---

title: Direct interaction between a user and a communication network
abstract: A mechanism is provided for direct interaction between an individual and a communication network. Captured data is received of the individual in an environment to be analyzed by a network management computer. The data is captured by network sensors. The network management computer determines that the individual is a subscriber to services of the communication network by identifying the subscriber from the data that has been captured. The subscriber is registered with a network carrier that operates and provides the services on the communication network. The data is obtained without assistance from a subscriber owned device providing the data. The data is analyzed to interpret commands when presented by the subscriber via the network sensors. The commands include gesture commands from the subscriber. An action is performed for the subscriber based on the commands.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451434&OS=09451434&RS=09451434
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09451434
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131127
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication services by a carrier and more particularly to techniques for enabling a user to interact directly with a wired wireless carrier network with or without the use of a subscriber owned device.

A mobile network operator or MNO also known as a wireless service provider wireless carrier cellular company or mobile network carrier is a provider of wireless communications services. The MNO owns or controls all the elements necessary to sell and deliver services to an end user including radio spectrum allocation wireless network infrastructure back haul infrastructure billing customer care and provisioning computer systems and marketing customer care provisioning and repair organizations.

In addition to obtaining revenue by offering retail services under its own brand an MNO may also sell access to network services at wholesale rates to mobile virtual network operators or MVNOs. A key defining characteristic of a mobile network operator is that an MNO must own or control access to a radio spectrum license from a regulatory or government entity. A second key defining characteristic of an MNO is that an MNO must own or control the elements of the network infrastructure that are necessary to provide services to subscribers over the licensed spectrum.

A MNO typically also has the necessary provisioning billing and customer care computer systems and the marketing customer care and engineering organizations needed to sell deliver and bill for services. However the MNO can outsource any of these systems or functions and still be considered a MNO.

Exemplary embodiments include a method for direct interaction between an individual and a communication network. The method includes receiving data captured of the individual in an environment to be analyzed by a network management computer. The data is captured by network sensors. The network management computer determines that the individual is a subscriber to services of the communication network by identifying the subscriber from the data that has been captured. The subscriber is registered with a network carrier that operates and provides the services on the communication network. The data is obtained without assistance from a subscriber owned device providing the data. The data is analyzed to interpret commands when presented by the subscriber via the network sensors. The commands comprise gesture commands from the subscriber. An action is performed for the subscriber based on the commands.

Other exemplary embodiments include an apparatus. The apparatus includes a processor and memory comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform operations for direct interaction between an individual and a communication network. The operations include receiving data of the individual in an environment to be analyzed and determining that the individual is a subscriber to services of the communication network by identifying the subscriber from the data that has been captured. The data is captured by network sensors. The subscriber is registered with a network carrier that operates and provides the services on the communication network. The data is obtained without assistance from a subscriber owned device providing the data. The data is analyzed to interpret commands when presented by the subscriber via the network sensors. The commands comprise gesture commands from the subscriber. An action is performed for the subscriber based on the commands.

Other exemplary embodiments include a computer program product tangibly embodied on a computer readable medium for direct interaction between an individual and a communication network. The computer program product includes instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations. The operations include receiving data captured of the individual in an environment to be analyzed and determining that the individual is a subscriber to services of the communication network by identifying the subscriber from the data that has been captured. The data being captured by network sensors. The subscriber is registered with a network carrier that operates and provides the services on the communication network. The data is obtained without assistance from a subscriber owned device and without the subscriber owned device providing the data. The data is analyzed to interpret commands when presented by the subscriber via the network sensors. The commands comprise gesture commands from the subscriber. An action is performed for the subscriber based on the commands.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the exemplary embodiments and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the exemplary embodiments together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

Subscriber owned devices create several issues not only for the subscribers themselves but also for wireless carriers and application developers. Physical mobile devices can be lost damaged or stolen leaving the subscriber without a means of communication. This can be especially problematic if the user needs to contact emergency services.

Also wireless carriers often subsidize the cost of mobile devices to make them more attractive to individual users resulting in large upfront costs likely without any guarantee of a positive return on investment. Application developers struggle to ensure their applications are available and operate properly for all users but fragmentation of operating systems across versions occurs as well as across different operating systems. This becomes difficult potentially costly and performance can be adversely affected.

According to exemplary embodiments a system and method use gesture and speech commands to control remote devices and remote systems including the network itself. This disclosure presents a system and method for enabling a user to interact directly with a wireless carrier network without the use of a subscriber owned device.

The communication network includes a network management computer NMC that may implement cloud computing and the communication network creates an always on platform for users to interact with. The network management computer NMC may be a single server a group of servers and or various servers seamlessly and cooperatively operating together on the communication network according to exemplary embodiments as discussed herein. The communication network is owned operated and controlled by a carrier such as AT T . The carrier is a communications service provider CSP . The communications service provider is the entity that transports information electronically and is also referred to as a telecommunications service provider. The term communications service provider or telecommunications service provider encompasses public and private companies in the telecom landline and wireless service provider business Internet service provider ISP business cable service provider business satellite service provider business managed services businesses and or a combination thereof.

The carrier operates and controls the communication network including one or more network management computers in order to provide services to the carrier s subscribers. Subscribers register in advance for the services offered by the carrier.

In this cloud based management system implementation the network management computer is designed for direct communication with and control between the user and the communication network . The network management computer is responsible for 1 identifying an individual as a user 2 coordinating tracking of the user 3 aggregating and analyzing data to interpret commands from the user as well as the user s intent behavior mood etc. 4 acting on the user s behalf without commands from the user 5 acting on the user s behalf in response to user commands 6 determining the appropriate means of relaying information data communication etc. to the user and or 7 carrying out these communications to the user and actions on behalf of the user.

Various example scenarios are discussed herein for explanation purposes and not limitation. The network management computer may receive data including images video audio etc. from network sensors . The network sensors are operatively connected to network access points that provide direct connection to the communication network including the network management computer . The network sensors may be located at e.g. collocated and or near the network access points . The network access points provide wireless connections to the network sensors . For example network access points may be cell towers corresponding to cell sites satellites Wi Fi routers and or any type of device capable of transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves for bidirectional communication with the network sensors . The network access points may provide wired connections to the network sensors. For example the network access points may be via Ethernet cables fiber optic cables copper cables and or other wired connections capable of transmitting and receiving signals for bidirectional communication with the network sensors . The network sensors may include cameras microphones scanning devices and other sensors as understood by one skilled in the art. In one implementation the network sensors e.g. video cameras microphones scanning devices etc. may be incorporated into the network access points and contained within the same housing case as the network access points .

One or more software applications of the network management computer analyze this captured data of the user and compare the captured data against existing indexed records to identify subscribers. These index records may include captured audio images video etc. captured in the past and the index records enable the network management computer to use several techniques to identify and match an individual as an actual subscriber to services of the communication network . When the software application is analyzing and comparing the captured data to the stored index records in order to identify the user these identification techniques include identifying the user by e.g. facial recognition gait recognition speech pattern recognition voice recognition bio morph identification clothing identification etc. These index records are private subscriber data including subscriber provided and shared data and network created subscriber models profiles and history . The subscriber provided and shared data may include contacts names telephone numbers email addresses of friends family and associates pin numbers usernames and passwords for various websites including account information for bank accounts pay accounts social media sites and so forth subscriber preferences aliases nicknames schedules calendars etc. For each of the subscribers the indexed records are stored in a private subscriber database in the network management computer . Additionally the indexed records may be stored in identification and tracking systems such as the home location register HLR visitor location register VLR or some other location.

The subscriber provided and shared data is input and customized by the subscriber himself in advance. The subscriber provided and shared data may include customized gestures that are set by the subscriber to cause the network management computer to perform identified user actions. The network created subscriber models profiles and history are created by the network management computer according to past history movement routines and actions performed by and associated with the subscriber. Accordingly the network management computer creates models and profiles of subscriber s past behavior which can be utilized to predict the subscriber s future intents and behavior even when the subscriber does not actively request a command.

Once the user has been identified by the network management computer e.g. using facial recognition and or gait the network management computer may coordinate tracking of this individual at individual network access points e.g. cell sites in the communication network itself. As an individual moves through an area while being tracked the tracking coverage by the network sensors of that area may change to include additional and or different network access points for network sensors .

The network management computer utilizes knowledge of the user s movements through the space as well as historical patterns in the subscriber models profiles and history to determine which network sensors connected to the network access point s may be best to continue tracking the subscriber in the space of an environment as shown in . illustrates the wireless wired communication network in the environment according to exemplary embodiments. So as not to obscure the figure every detail of the communication network is not repeated in the environment but it is understood that the details are present in .

In addition to tracking the subscriber the network management computer utilizes the captured data to identify all subscriber commands e.g. gestures speech etc. that have been presented by the subscriber. The accuracy of this analysis to identify subscriber commands can be enhanced by using past historical records trends habits and or mannerisms of the subscriber to build a more accurate model stored in models profiles and history for comparing the currently captured data against.

These commands e.g. gestures speech etc. may be standardized user customized and or completely user generated. Acceptable commands and their corresponding action may be stored within network management computer and or at another location. The accuracy of the interpretation of the commands by the network management computer may be further enhanced by contextual cues perceived inferred user persona etc. For example speech used for a certain command may vary based on where a user is what the user is doing mood recent events and so forth and the network management computer takes all of these factors into account when interpreting the subscriber s commands. Further the network management computer utilizes all available data including the captured data previously mentioned as well as any data the user has provided or otherwise given access to such as a schedule as well as any publicly available data to determine context persona etc. Publicly available data may include data from social media sites government provided data mapping and address sites telephone data and so forth.

Given that the network management computer has access to all of this data the network management computer can utilize prediction logic of the software application to act on the user s behalf without first being instructed to through gesture speech and or any other kind of subscriber commands all of which represents the subscriber s intent. When acting on the subscriber s behalf without being instructed to by the subscriber these actions may be to set preferences such as schedule and reschedule appointments make pickups and deliveries make purchases initiate calls send messages etc.

After determining that the subscriber has issued a command the network management computer carries out the corresponding action on the user s behalf. In some cases performing the command involves some level of discretion on the part of network management computer such as e.g. a message might need to be sent once a user reaches a certain location. In this situation the network management computer analyzes historical behavior as well as all of the data previously mentioned to determine the appropriate interpretation and thus what time to send the message. Assume that the message that the subscriber wants to send to her husband at home at a restaurant or at the game is I ll be there in 30 minutes . The network management computer knows the current location of the subscriber and the recipient husband. Based on mapping data obtained by the network management computer and based on whether subscriber is moving a speed corresponding to walking or diving the network management computer sends the message when the network management computer determines that the subscriber is approximately 30 minutes away from the recipient s location. Note that even if the subscriber has not provided commands to send any message to the recipient husband the network management computer still sends the message I ll be there in 30 minutes to the recipient husband on the subscriber s behalf without being instructed and this represents the subscriber s intent as inferred by the network management computer .

Network systems represent internal servers switches routers and so forth having functionality offered and utilized by the network carrier. The network systems may represent email servers text messaging servers storage servers voice servers and switches video servers and switches programming equipment etc. and all of which can be provided for to and on behalf of the subscribers. Internet accessible systems represent the various external servers switches routers and Internet accessible functionality provided externally such as by entities other than the network carrier of the subscriber. The network management computer may connect to the Internet accessible systems e.g. via pre stored usernames and passwords for the subscriber and cause the Internet accessible systems to execute on behalf the subscriber. The Internet accessible systems include external servers external pay account servers e.g. such as PayPal external website servers external business servers home computer systems for managing homes etc.

When information data communication and so forth need to reach a subscriber that does not have his subscriber owned device the network management computer analyzes available options in the vicinity e.g. walking distance of the subscriber to determine the best location and method for communicating the information to the subscriber. This may involve an initial communication to the subscriber at a first location e.g. locations A though Z instructing him to go to a second location where the actual communication exchange will take place. In one example the environment is an urban city with various locations A through Z that have their own sensors access points and or output devices . Each location A through Z has its own location orientation data including global positioning data street address longitude and latitude waypoints etc. stored in the network management computer . By having all of the location data for each of the locations A through Z the network management computer can identify and track via continuously captured data the subscriber throughout the environment and guide the subscriber through the environment as needed. For example each location A through Z is shown with its own sensors access points and output devices . Continuing the scenario in which the network management computer instructs the subscriber at the first location such as location B to traverse e.g. walk to the second location such as location F the network management computer may utilize speakers of the output device at location B to verbally instruct the subscriber to walk 200 feet north across the street S1 and 100 feet south in order to reach location F. Location B may only have speakers as the output device but location F has both speakers and a display screen as its output device . For the communication exchange to occur the network management computer determines that information needs to be displayed to the subscriber finds the closest location that has a display screen for the output device and instructs the subscriber how to reach the nearby location. Although the network management computer determines that location D is closer to the subscriber at location B the network management computer recognizes that location D only has speakers as the output device but does not have the needed display screen. Note that this same process of guiding the subscriber from one location to another location via verbal instructions and ore displayed instructions on the output devices is utilized by the network management computer to guide the subscriber away from a harmful threat and to emergency services personnel.

Note that the methods utilized by the network management computer to communicate with the subscriber vary depending on the availability of different systems of the output devices e.g. speakers could be directed audio screens projectors electronic billboards etc. at the particular location. In some cases there may be multiple network access points covering a particular area. In these situations the network management computer may utilize captured data from these multiple sources to create composite images videos etc. of the subscriber from the sensors at each of the nearby locations. For example when the subscriber is at location B cameras from location A B D and F may be pointed angled and zoomed toward the subscriber B. The composite images and videos e.g. both audio and video from each of the sensors are utilized by the network management computer to eliminate missed gestures due to obstructed views as well as help remove audio interference and background noise.

Returning to the scenario of the subscriber being instructed to walk from location B to location F once the subscriber walks to location F the sensors can capture the user s face and the network management computer again identifies the identity of the subscriber using facial recognition. Once identified as the subscriber the network management computer can display to the subscriber a video message and or text message on the display screen and speakers of the output device at location F. The video message may be from the subscriber s spouse child child s school and or parents. The subscriber can provide a command through a gesture and or voice command via the cameras and microphone of the sensors at the location F and the subscriber command can instruct the network management computer to send a video message and or text message back to the sender. Also the subscriber can present subscriber commands to the sensors in which the subscriber commands instruct the network management computer to send a video message text message and or call to another recipient that is different from the original sender. Via the sensors and output devices at location F the network management computer can provide real time near real time and or delayed communications between the subscriber and any other person all while the subscriber is not in possession of a subscriber owned device e.g. such as a mobile phone . At the location F the subscriber may choose to call any contact in his contact lists which is stored on the network management computer and the network management computer executes instructions to place the call to the contact. At this point when placing the call to the contact the subscriber has the option of utilizing the network sensors and network output devices which are under the control and authority of the carrier and are not subscriber owned devices to communicate with the contact. Since the sensors e.g. microphone and output devices e.g. speaker may be in a public location others may be able to listen in on the subscriber s call to the contact. Accordingly the subscriber may be able to connect to the sensors and or output devices via wearable devices which can include earpieces headsets wristwatches glasses etc. by using Bluetooth technology. By talking with the contact through the wearable device that is now connected to the sensors and or output devices at location F the subscriber can have a private conversation with the contact who was just called by the network management computer and bystanders are unable to listen in on the conversation. It is noted that the wearable device does not have dialing capability and the subscriber relies on commands to the network management computer to place the call to the correct contact.

Although all the communication exchanges along with identification and tracking of the subscriber can be performed without using a subscriber owned device physical user owned device such as a cell phone simply because a user may not require the use of a physical device to interact with the network management computer does not mean that use of a subscriber owned device is prohibited or unsupported. Exemplary embodiments can provide direct communication between the subscriber and the communication network in addition to the use of the physical user owned device even concurrent . In some cases the subscriber may be using the subscriber owned device physical device in some way and may issue a command via a gesture which instructs the communication network network management computer to make some change to the subscriber owned device being used. This type of exchange could simplify physical user owned devices and provide opportunities for changing their appearance. This is especially true of wearable devices . As discussed above an example of this might be a headset that a user wears such as a Bluetooth headset that connects to the communication network such as the sensors access points and or output devices rather than a subscriber owned device physical user owned device . In this type of situation calls can be initiated and terminated through speech and or gesture commands captured by the sensors . Volume could be adjusted using captured gestures command to the network management computer as well without the subscriber having to select a volume button on the user owned device . This also gives the network management computer another way in which to communicate information to the user. The simplicity of such wearable devices enables new innovations such as disposable wearable devices. To increase innovation in the wireless area all and or part of the network management computer as well as the physical sensors cameras microphones scanning devices and output devices speakers display screens located on network access points may be opened up to developers via application programming interface APIs .

Note that the environment having the communication network may represent small cells such as connected cars homes businesses and or other connected devices. Assume that the locations A through Z may be various homes in a community in which residents have signed up as a subscriber for the services of the carrier for the communication network . In this example it may be assumed that some homes have their own subscriber owned sensors subscriber owned access points subscriber owned output devices while some homes have network owned sensors network owned access points and network owned output devices all of which are connected and communicate with the network management computer as discussed herein. The subscriber may leave his home at location Z and walk to the neighbor s home at location B. The subscriber may have a home control center computer CCC that connects to and securely controls all aspects of his home at location Z. The control center computer includes computer executable instructions to control home systems including appliances the heating ventilation and air conditioning system the security system the home entertainment system the sprinkler system the lighting system garage system vehicle systems and so forth. While at the neighbor s home at location B the subscriber may realize that he failed to perform a task. Also while at the neighbor s home the subscriber may stand in front of and or speak to the sensor in order for the network management computer to identify the subscriber as a registered user of the services offered by the carrier e.g. AT T . The network management computer may acknowledge confirm the subscriber s identity by saying through the output device Hello Mr. Smith. I see that you are visiting Mr. Jones today . Once identified by the network management computer and while the subscriber is at the neighbor s home at location B the subscriber Mr. Smith can control any of the home systems at his home at location Z all while not using and not requiring Mr. Smith to possess a subscriber owned device. For example the subscriber Mr. Smith can present gesture commands and or speech commands to the sensors at location B and the commands cause the network management computer to communicate with the control center computer to cause the lights to turn on off the security system to turn on off the appliances to turn on off the HVAC system to turn on off to garage doors to open close etc. In one case the functionality of the control center computer may be completely or partially integrated into the computer executable instructions of the network management computer such that the control center computer may be omitted. Note that the home control center computer represents one of the Internet accessible systems .

Additionally there may be a scenario in which the subscriber has been walking in the environment and the network management computer is tracking the movements of the subscriber via the sensors e.g. tracking the subscriber at the various locations A through Z . Assume that the subscriber has entered a vehicle . The network management computer now tracks the subscriber s movement by tracking the vehicle that the subscriber has boarded e.g. bus train car plane etc. and the network management computer tracks the vehicle until the subscriber exits the vehicle. The network management computer can track vehicles such as the vehicle by visible markings including identifying registration numbers tag numbers make and model of the vehicle etc. which are captured by the sensors . From the captured data the network management computer identifies the vehicle as the vehicle travels from one location to another location. Also the network management computer can track the vehicle by location information generated and shared by the vehicle itself via an onboard network access point . In addition to the onboard network access point the vehicle may be equipped with sensors for identifying the subscriber and receiving commands in the vehicle and output devices for communicating with the subscriber in the vehicle .

The network sensors which may include sensors of a business entity home etc. registered for the services capture data of an individual at block . Cameras microphones and other sensors located with and or near network access points e.g. cell sites capture the data of the individual.

The captured data is retrieved by and or fed to the network management computer from the respective network sensors at block .

At block the network management computer utilizes available models and data to match captured images and or speech of subscriber to identify the individual as the subscriber to the communication services. There are many techniques the network management computer may utilize to identify and verify the identity of subscribers such as facial recognition gait recognition etc. Additionally methods of capturing information by the sensors may include changes to propagating signals such as Wi Fi signals resulting from the presence and movements of a user which is known as WiSee. Reference can be made to Whole Home Gesture Recognition Using Wireless Signals by Qifan Pu Sidhant Gupta Shyam Gollakota Shwetak Patel published at The 19th Annual International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking Mobicom 13 which is herein incorporated by reference.

At block the network management computer updates the subscriber specific models history trends etc. stored as the shared data and profile history of the private subscriber database to improve accuracy for identifying the subscriber on future occasions for interpreting the subscriber s gesture and or speech commands on future occasions and for interpreting the intent of the subscriber when no subscriber commands are given.

At block by using data captured from multiple sensors which are at different graphical locations and different angles thus providing different perspectives of the subscriber being monitored and tracked the network management computer applies knowledge of sensor locations e.g. cameras scanning devices etc. and angles to track the subscriber and enhance analysis accuracy. Enhancing analysis accuracy is utilized to view commands from different angles to correctly identify the commands.

By utilizing profiles models records associated with identified subscriber e.g. previously stored in the private subscriber database for the identified subscriber the network management computer determines whether one or more commands are given by the subscriber at block . When the command is determined to be given the network management computer also determines what exactly the command is that has been given by the subscriber. The sensors may capture the subscriber input in at least two forms which are speech and gesture commands and the network management computer continuously analyzes the captured data to identify the command that has been given.

When it is determined that no command is given by the subscriber the network management computer continues receiving data of the subscriber from the various sensors and tracking the subscriber throughout the environment . Concurrently the network management computer monitors and analyzes environment body language of the subscriber and subscriber previously provided data to identify opportunities to enhance the subscriber s experience life at block . Based on determining inferring the intent of the subscriber and or identifying an opportunity to enhance the subscriber s experience life the network management computer performs triggers initiates and or starts the actions associated with the inferred identified subscriber benefits and intent at block .

During the process flow cameras and microphones of the sensors along with other input sources can be used to apply context to user interactions to simplify inputs and or enhance accuracy. Emotional mental state can be inferred from body language speech cues and other behavioral indicators e.g. purchasing activity . Based on analysis of the behavioral indicators by the network management computer these and other sources of information can enable the network management computer to act on behalf of the user to accomplish tasks for the subscriber provide information to recipients without being prompted and or apply custom settings conditions to connected systems and devices. If this information and or any information is to be supplied to the subscriber this information can be communicated to the subscriber via projection onto a surface by the output device such as audio projection by the output device via a display screen of the output device and or through connected devices e.g. the subscriber may have her wearable device or subscriber owned device i.e. phone . Reference for sound transmitted in narrow beams can be made to Sound From Ultrasound The Parametric Array as an Audible Sound Source by F. Joseph Pompei published by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology June 202 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Just as subscriber input is through the sensors not owned by the subscriber so to can information from the network management computer including communications from other individual pre selected by the subscriber be supplied to the subscriber through these output devices not owned by the subscriber. These output devices may be used to provide some and or all of a projected image sound and other indicators notifications as noted herein. As one example assume that a sender e.g. child spouse and or preselected contact of the subscriber needs to communicate a message to the subscriber who is not in possession of her subscriber owned device. By the sender utilizing his own subscriber owned device and or presenting speech and gesture commands to the network management computer the sender instructs the network management computer to find the subscriber wife and display speak the urgent message. The sender needing to communicate the message to the subscriber has to instruct the network management computer where to begin searching to find for the subscriber. For example the sender may instruct the network management computer to check the subscriber car which has camera and microphone sensors and output devices check the downtown of a particular named city and or to check within a particular radius on a map. In one case the subscriber may periodically check in with the network management computer by presenting herself in front of the nearest sensor for identification which allows the network management computer to track the last location of the subscriber. As such the network management computer may inform the sender that the subscriber is at location X and or was last identified at location X. Accordingly the network management computer searches for the subscriber at a radius around location X in addition to the locations identified by the sender. Searching by the network management computer for the subscriber includes reviewing past captured data within a timeframe e.g. past 10 20 30 . . . 60 90 minutes to determine if the subscriber was previously captured along with searching currently captured data to identify the subscriber. The sender instruct the timeframe how far in the past to search. If the subscriber happed to check in with the network management computer and or if the network management computer searches and finds the subscriber network management computer informs the subscriber that she has the message from sender waiting. The network management computer can now display and speak the message to the subscriber.

Embodiments enable a subscriber to utilize connected cars connected homes and cities in place of or in addition to traditional mobile devices. Embodiments are aligned with trends that are just beginning such as wearable computing e.g. Google glass smart watches etc. . . . . Embodiments provide the ability to interact directly with the wired wireless communication network which eliminates and or minimizes the difficulties associated with contacting emergency services without a functioning mobile device subscribed owned device . For example the network management computer is able to recognize a speech command voice command and or intent for emergency services and accordingly the network management computer calls to send emergency services to the identified location even if the user is not a subscriber to the communication services of the carrier who owns the communication network . Further this can be extended by eliminating issues associated with different carrier networks. The network management computer can contact emergency services regardless of whether or not the user subscribes to the communication network that captures the gesture and or speech requesting emergency services. This same ability to interact with individuals regardless of carrier subscription has benefits linked to the inverse scenarios. The network management computer can now alert individuals of threats and guide them to safety regardless of subscription status via the sensors and output devices as noted above.

Further embodiments permit software application developers to design software applications which utilize at least part of the communication network via an API. Users and or application developers may be able to customize the gestures speech colors images etc. used to exchange information between the subscriber and the communication network via the network management computer . Cloud based storage e.g. on distributed network management computers can be incorporated to handle the storage needs associated with eliminating handheld mobile devices.

Now turning to a method is illustrated for direct interaction between an individual and the communication network according to an exemplary embodiment. Reference can be made to along with discussed below. Any device discussed herein may utilize features of a computer discussed below including features such as processors memory and computer program code computer executable instructions stored in the memory . Note that the network management computer may perform various operations discussed herein and in some cases the network management computer may direct instruct other device to perform the operations. For example the processor of the network management computer may execute the operations and or the network management computer may instruct one or more processors in remote devices to perform the desired operations.

The network management computer continuously receives captured data of the individual in an environment such as the environment to be analyzed for services and the data is continually being captured by network sensors at block .

The network management computer determines that the individual is a subscriber to services of the communication network by identifying the subscriber from the data that has been captured at block .

At block the network management computer determines e.g. from registration files of all subscribers and or from the subscriber s personal data in the private subscriber database that the subscriber has previously registered with the network carrier e.g. AT T that owns and provides the services on the communication network via the network management computer . If the network management computer determines that the individual is not a subscriber to the communication services i.e. the speech and gesture command services which require no subscriber user owned device such as a cell phone offered by the network carrier the network management computer denies the non subscriber owned device services to the individual. Optionally when the individual is identified recognized as a past subscriber by the network management computer the network management computer asks the individual via the output devices whether the individual wants to restore communication services i.e. the past subscriber can register again for the services that require no subscriber owned device when the individual responds with a yes speech and or gesture command the network management computer immediately provides the communication services to the past subscriber as a regular subscriber as discussed herein. It is understood that if the individual has her own cell phone and is not registered as a subscriber for communication services she may utilize normal cell phone access as understood by one skilled in the art.

At block the captured data is obtained without the subscriber having a subscriber owned device and without the subscriber owned device providing the captured data. The captured data such as images both still and moving and speech captured of the subscriber is captured without e.g. the subscriber having to use her subscriber owned device cell phone to input record and transmit images speech commands and gesture commands to the network management computer .

At block the network management computer analyzes the data to interpret commands presented by the subscriber via the network sensors . As noted herein the options for the commands include gesture commands and voice commands presented by the subscriber. Even if another person such as a bystander a person passing by and or a friend intentionally attempting to trick the network management computer is speaking or making gestures the network management computer only associates and acts on commands from the subscriber and does not acknowledge commands from the other person. The network management computer may also confirm that the subscriber s command has been accepted and is going to be executed by displaying and or speaking a confirmation message to the subscriber by using a name and or preselected alias nickname for confirmation via the output devices . The network management computer may also ask in a message the subscriber to repeat the commands and or inform the subscriber that the network management computer is unable to execute the given commands. At this point the subscriber can repeat the commands for execution by the network management computer .

At block the network management computer performs one or more actions for the subscriber based on the commands given by the subscriber without requiring the subscriber to have a subscriber owned device.

The network management computer coordinates tracking of the subscriber moving through the environment based on the network sensors capturing the data of the subscriber from one location to the next location. The network management computer analyzes the data of the subscriber in the environment to interpret the intent of the subscriber and identify opportunities for benefiting the subscriber all without the subscriber actively presenting the speech and or gesture commands over the network sensors . Based on interpreting the inferred intent of the subscriber and opportunities for benefiting the subscriber network management computer determines actions to perform on behalf of the subscriber when the subscriber has not presented the commands over the network sensors and or by any subscriber owned device including cell phones smart watches etc. . The network management computer performs the actions on behalf of the subscriber and or causes the actions to be executed on behalf of the subscriber based on the intent interpreted and opportunities for benefiting the subscriber. In one implementation the network management computer may direct the subscriber to a location of a nearest network output device in order to communicate a request for confirmation of the intent of the subscriber when the nearest network output device is not in an immediate vicinity of the subscriber. Once the subscriber has moved to the nearest network output device the network management computer display and or audibly speak e.g. via text to speech conversion the request for confirmation of intent to the subscriber thus confirming the intent to the subscriber through the nearest network output device. The subscriber can indicate yes or no commands to respectively affirm or deny the intent just interpreted by the network management computer . If the intent is confirmed as yes the network management computer carries out the corresponding actions. If no the network management computer does not execute the actions for intent.

As noted herein the intent is inferred without instructions of the commands from the subscriber and analysis by the network management computer for determining the intent of the subscriber is based on a model e.g. previously stored in the private subscriber database created from the data previously captured over a time period for the subscriber. The model of the subscriber is based on historical records trends habits and mannerisms of the subscriber all captured and fed to the network management computer . The model is utilized by the network management computer as a comparison to interpret the commands presented by the subscriber over the network sensors and to infer intent of the subscriber when no commands are presented.

When the network management computer determines and identifies that the individual is in fact the subscriber to services of the communication network from the data that has been captured the network management computer may identify the subscriber by facial recognition gait recognition speech pattern recognition voice recognition bio morph identification recognition including finger print recognition eye scan recognition etc. and other techniques for identification as understood by one skilled in the art. For example the subscriber may have an identification card e.g. with a barcode such as a QR code that is scanned by a reader and or camera of the network sensor to identify the subscriber. Identification of the subscriber allows the network management computer to match the subscriber to the vast private subscriber data in the private subscriber database for enhancing the subscriber s life experience.

Further coordinated tracking of the subscriber moving through the environment based on the network sensors capturing the data of the subscriber includes the network management computer identifying the subscriber at different locations such as the different locations A through Z as the subscriber traverses through the environment via corresponding network sensors at the respective locations. The addresses of each of the locations is known and stored in advance in the network management computer . Based on the model of past behavior for the subscriber previously stored in the private subscriber database the network management computer determines messages phone calls and changes in schedule as actions that need to be performed on behalf of the subscriber without the subscriber presenting these and or any commands to the network sensors .

Also the network management computer may utilize the model of the past behavior for the subscriber to determine that the subscriber has a condition of the following delayed in timing ahead of time involved in an emergency and an anomaly in subscriber pattern. Based on any of the conditions the network management computer determining that the condition of the subscriber requires communication to predefined recipients.

The network sensors through which the data is captured are not owned and operated by the subscriber. Similarly the network output devices through which the request for confirmation is output is not owned and operated by the subscriber. The network sensors and or network output devices may be owned and installed by the network carrier e.g. such as AT T a city utilities security department a business entity such as a local store owner who has agreed and previously signed up to allow her sensors and output devices to be utilized by the network carrier etc. As such the environment may include multiple homes registered for the services that utilize network output devices and the network sensors and or the environment includes a city registered for the services that utilizes the network output devices and the network sensors dispersed at various locations throughout streets of the city.

The network management computer remotely connects to business output devices and business sensors of a business entity to communicate with the subscriber when the subscriber is determined to be in a vicinity of the business output devices and the business sensors. For example the subscriber may move from network sensors and network output device owned by the network carrier to sensors and output devices owned by the particular business entity. In this case the business entity having the business output devices and the business sensors has previously registered for the services in order to allow the network management computer to communicate with and capture the data of the subscriber via the business output devices and the business sensors owned by the business entity. When the subscriber is in the vicinity of the business output devices the network management computer may display text images and video on a display screen of the business output devices including an electronic billboard electronic sign and so forth to communicate a message personal to the subscriber by interrupting a business advertisement presented on the business output devices . Also when the subscriber is in the vicinity of the business output devices the network management computer may project audio through speakers of the business output devices to communicate the message personal to the subscriber. Once the message is finished and or when the subscriber is no longer in the vicinity of the business entity the network management computer discontinues the message through the business output devices of the business entity to allow the business advertisement to resume on the business output devices. This process may repeat for various different subscribers who have registered for the communication services provided by the network carrier such as AT T over the communication network .

Although various example scenarios have been discussed for explanation purposes in which the sensors access points output devices and or the network management computer are owned and or controlled by the network provider carrier such as e.g. AT T embodiments are not meant to be limited. In some implementations the equipment the sensors access points output devices and or the network management computer may be connected to the network but may not be owned and or controlled by the same network provider carrier. Embodiments may include different combinations of entities and ownership and the equipment may not be wholly owned and or controlled by a single network provider carrier as would be understood by one skilled in the art. Similarly the database and software application may not be wholly owned and or controlled by a single network provider carrier.

Referring back to consider a scenario in which each location A through Z is owned and or controlled by different various network providers carriers who agree in advance to allow their respective equipment sensors access points output devices and or the network management computer along with databases to be commonly utilized for providing the communication services discussed herein. For example regardless of which entity owns and or controls the sensors the subscriber is able to present commands and be tracked as discussed herein. Likewise regardless of which entity owns and or controls the output devices the network management computer is able to communicate with the subscriber. In one case the various network providers carriers may implement a roaming service similar to wireless carriers. For example the roaming allows the extension of connectivity service in a location that is different from the home location e.g. the home network carrier where the service was originally registered. Roaming ensures that the subscriber is kept connected to the communication network and the network management computer without losing the connection. Roaming allows the subscriber to travel outside the geographical coverage area of the home network carrier by means of using a visited network carrier. Roaming is technically supported by management authentication authorization and billing procedures as understood by one skilled in the art.

Generally in terms of hardware architecture the computer may include one or more processors computer readable storage memory and one or more input and or output I O devices that are communicatively coupled via a local interface not shown . The local interface can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface may have additional elements such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software that can be stored in the memory . The processor can be virtually any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU a data signal processor DSP or an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the computer and the processor may be a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or a microprocessor.

The computer readable memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM programmable read only memory PROM tape compact disc read only memory CD ROM disk diskette cartridge cassette or the like etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in the computer readable memory may include one or more separate programs each of which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The software in the memory includes a suitable operating system O S compiler source code and one or more applications of the exemplary embodiments. As illustrated the application comprises numerous functional components for implementing the features processes methods functions and operations of the exemplary embodiments. The application of the computer may represent numerous applications agents software components modules interfaces controllers etc. as discussed herein but the application is not meant to be a limitation.

The operating system may control the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

The application may be a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When a source program then the program is usually translated via a compiler such as the compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the O S . Furthermore the application can be written as a an object oriented programming language which has classes of data and methods or b a procedure programming language which has routines subroutines and or functions.

The I O devices may include input devices or peripherals such as for example but not limited to a mouse keyboard scanner microphone camera etc. Furthermore the I O devices may also include output devices or peripherals for example but not limited to a printer display etc. Finally the I O devices may further include devices that communicate both inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a NIC or modulator demodulator for accessing remote devices other files devices systems or a network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc. The I O devices also include components for communicating over various networks such as the Internet or an intranet. The I O devices may be connected to and or communicate with the processor utilizing Bluetooth connections and cables via e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB ports serial ports parallel ports FireWire HDMI High Definition Multimedia Interface etc. .

When the computer is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the computer pursuant to the software. The application and the O S are read in whole or in part by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

When the application is implemented in software it should be noted that the application can be stored on virtually any computer readable storage medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. The application can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus server or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions.

In exemplary embodiments where the application is implemented in hardware the application can be implemented with any one or a combination of the following technologies which are each well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

As described above the exemplary embodiments can be in the form of processor implemented processes and devices for practicing those processes such as processor. The exemplary embodiments can also be in the form of computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes a device for practicing the exemplary embodiments. The exemplary embodiments can also be in the form of computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into an executed by a computer the computer becomes an device for practicing the exemplary embodiments. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

