---

title: Location-based bid modifiers
abstract: Systems and methods for determining location-based bid modifier suggestions include determining a content placement cost based in part on a likelihood of a user that has entered a physical establishment completing a transaction, an average transaction amount for the establishment, and an expected return on investment (ROI). A location-based bid modifier may be determined using the computed cost and a base bid amount. In some implementations, the location-based bid modifier may also be based on a probability model that models the probability of the user visiting the establishment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489692&OS=09489692&RS=09489692
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09489692
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131016
---
Online content may be received from various first party or third party sources. In general first party content refers to the primary online content requested or displayed by the client device. For example first party content may be a webpage requested by the client or a stand alone application e.g. a video game a chat program etc. running on the device. Third party content in contrast refers to additional content that may be provided in conjunction with the first party content. For example third party content may be a public service announcement or advertisement that appears in conjunction with a requested webpage e.g. a search result webpage from a search engine a webpage that includes an online article a webpage of a social networking service etc. or within a stand alone application e.g. an advertisement within a game . More generally a first party content provider may be any content provider that allows another content provider i.e. a third party content provider to provide content in conjunction with that of the first party.

One implementation is a method of suggesting an auction bid modifier. The method includes receiving at the one or more processors data indicative of the likelihood of a user that has entered a physical establishment completing a transaction. The method also includes receiving at the one or more processors data indicative of an average transaction amount for the establishment. The method further includes receiving at the one or more processors data indicative of an expected return on investment ROI for a transaction made at the establishment that resulted from the placement of third party content. The method additionally includes receiving at the one or more processors a base bid amount for a content auction. The method also includes calculating by the one or more processors a content placement cost associated with an average transaction for the establishment using the average transaction amount for the establishment the expected ROI for a transaction and the likelihood of a user that has entered the establishment completing a transaction. The method yet further includes determining an auction bid modifier using the base bid amount and the calculated content placement cost. The method also includes providing the auction bid modifier for display.

Another implementation is a system for suggesting an auction bid modifier that includes one or more processors. The one or more processors are operable to receive data indicative of the likelihood of a user that has entered a physical establishment completing a transaction. The one or more processors are also operable to receive data indicative of an average transaction amount for the establishment. The one or more processors are further operable to receive data indicative of an expected return on investment ROI for a transaction made at the establishment that resulted from the placement of third party content. The one or more processors are yet further operable to receive a base bid amount for a content auction. The one or more processors are additionally operable to calculate a content placement cost associated with an average transaction for the establishment using the average transaction amount for the establishment the expected ROI for a transaction and the likelihood of a user that has entered the establishment completing a transaction. The one or more processors are also operable to determine an auction bid modifier using the base bid amount and the calculated content placement cost. The one or more processors are additionally operable to provide the auction bid modifier for display.

A further implementation is a computer readable storage medium having machine instructions stored therein that are executable by one or more processors and cause the one or more processors to perform operations. The operations include receiving data indicative of the likelihood of a user that has entered a physical establishment completing a transaction. The operations also include receiving data indicative of an average transaction amount for the establishment. The operations further include receiving data indicative of an expected return on investment ROI for a transaction made at the establishment that resulted from the placement of third party content. The operations additionally include receiving a base bid amount for a content auction. The operations also include calculating a content placement cost associated with an average transaction for the establishment using the average transaction amount for the establishment the expected ROI for a transaction and the likelihood of a user that has entered the establishment completing a transaction. The operations yet further include determining an auction bid modifier using the base bid amount and the calculated content placement cost. The operations also include providing the auction bid modifier for display.

These implementations are mentioned not to limit or define the scope of the disclosure but to provide an example of an implementation of the disclosure to aid in understanding thereof. Particular implementations may be developed to realize one or more of the following advantages.

According to some aspects of the present disclosure a first party content provider may allow a content selection service to determine which third party content is to be provided in conjunction with the first party provider s content. One or more third party content providers may also use the content selection service to provide third party content in conjunction with content from any number of first party providers. In some cases the content selection service may dynamically select which third party content is presented in conjunction with a first party provider s content. For example a first party webpage may display different third party content during different visits to the webpage. The content selection service may determine which third party content is to be provided based on any number of factors e.g. whether the third party content and first party content relate to the same topic . For example a third party advertisement for golf clubs may appear on a webpage devoted to reviews of golf resorts. The content selection service may also conduct a content auction to select the third party content to be provided from among the various third party content providers.

In some cases third party content selected by a content selection service may be interactive. For example the third party content may be a playable video or audio file. In another example the third party content may be a clickable image e.g. a hotlinked image or hotlink configured to direct a web browser to an associated webpage when the image or hotlink is selected. In response to an interaction with the third party content at a client device the content selection service may receive an indication of the interaction. For example the content selection service may receive an indication that a device clicked on a third party image and was redirected to the third party content provider s website.

A content selection service may use data indicative of interactions with third party content in a number of ways. The content selection service may allow third party content providers to bid in an auction based on whether a user interacts with the selected content. For example a third party content provider may place a bid in the auction that corresponds to an agreement to pay a certain amount of money if a user interacts with the provider s content e.g. the provider may agree to pay 3 if the user clicks on the provider s content . The content selection service may also use content interaction data to determine the performance of the first party provider s content. For example users may be more inclined to click on third party content on certain webpages over others. Auction bids to place third party content may be higher for high performing websites while the bids may be lower for low performing websites.

For situations in which the systems discussed herein collect personal information about a user or may make use of personal information the user may be provided with an opportunity to control which programs or features collect such information the types of information that may be collected e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities a user s preferences a user s current location etc. and or how third party content may be selected by a content selection service and presented to the user. Certain data such as a device identifier may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed when generating parameters e.g. demographic parameters used by the content selection service to select third party content. For example a device identifier may be anonymized so that no personally identifiable information about its corresponding user can be determined from it. In another example a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a precise location of the user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about him or her and used by the content selection service.

In some implementations a content selection service may be configured to allow a third party content provider to create one or more campaigns such as an advertising campaign. As part of a campaign the third party content provider may set any number of parameters that control how and when the third party content provider participates in a content auction. For example a campaign may include a bid amount on behalf of the content provider for use in a content auction. Other parameters may include selection parameters that control when the bid amount is used e.g. whether or not the third party content provider participates in a particular content auction . Selection parameters may include but are not limited to a set of one or more search keywords a topical category a geographic location of the client device on which the third party content will be presented or the type of client device on which the third party content will be presented.

According to various implementations a content selection service may suggest a bid amount to a third party content provider that uses location based selection parameters in content auctions. In some implementations the suggested bid amount may be a bid modifier value that adjusts the auction bids of the provider based on the location of the client device. For example the content selection service may suggest that an advertiser bid 25 more than his or her base bid if the device that would receive the advertisement is located within a mile of the advertiser s retail establishment. In various implementations the suggested bid modifier value may be based on certain information received by the content selection service. For example the suggested bid modifier may be based in part on the likelihood of a patron completing a transaction after entering the physical establishment of the content provider the average amount of a completed transaction in the establishment the base bid amount used by the content provider and or the expected return on investment ROI of the content provider. In further implementations the content selection service may generate multiple bid modifiers based on a probability of a user visiting the establishment of the third party content provider.

For example the content selection service may generate a suggested bid modifier of 25 to an advertiser s base bid if the client device is located within one mile of the establishment a bid modifier of 20 if the client device is located between one and five miles of the establishment etc.

Referring to a block diagram of a computer system in accordance with a described implementation is shown. System includes a client device which communicates with other computing devices via a network . Client device may execute a web browser or other application e.g. a video game a messenger program a media player a social networking application etc. to retrieve content from other devices over network . For example client device may communicate with any number of content sources e.g. a first content source through nth content source . Content sources may provide webpage data and or other content such as images video and audio to client device . Computer system may also include a content selection service configured to select third party content to be provided to client device . For example content source may provide a first party webpage to client device that includes additional third party content selected by content selection service .

Network may be any form of computer network that relays information between client device content sources and content selection service . For example network may include the Internet and or other types of data networks such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a cellular network satellite network or other types of data networks. Network may also include any number of computing devices e.g. computer servers routers network switches etc. that are configured to receive and or transmit data within network . Network may further include any number of hardwired and or wireless connections. For example client device may communicate wirelessly e.g. via WiFi cellular radio etc. with a transceiver that is hardwired e.g. via a fiber optic cable a CAT5 cable etc. to other computing devices in network .

Client device may be any number of different types of user electronic devices configured to communicate via network e.g. a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a smartphone a digital video recorder a set top box for a television a video game console combinations thereof etc. . In some implementations the type of client device may be categorized as being a mobile device a desktop device e.g. a device intended to remain stationary or configured to primarily access network via a local area network or another category of electronic devices e.g. tablet devices may be a third category etc. . Client device is shown to include a processor and a memory . Memory may store machine instructions that when executed by processor cause processor to perform one or more of the operations described herein. Processor may include one or more microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs other forms of processing circuitry or combinations thereof. Memory may include but is not limited to electronic optical magnetic or any other storage or transmission device capable of providing processor with program instructions. Memory may include a floppy disk CD ROM DVD magnetic disk memory chip. ROM RAM EEPROM EPROM flash memory optical media or any other suitable memory from which processor can read instructions.

Client device may include one or more user interface devices. A user interface device may be any electronic device that conveys data to a user by generating sensory information e.g. a visualization on a display one or more sounds etc. and or converts received sensory information from a user into electronic signals e.g. a keyboard a mouse a pointing device a touch screen display a microphone etc. . The one or more user interface devices may be internal to the housing of client device e.g. a built in display microphone etc. or external to the housing of client device e.g. a monitor connected to client device a speaker connected to client device etc. according to various implementations. For example client device may include an electronic display which displays webpages and other data received from content sources and or content selection service . In various implementations display may be located inside or outside of the same housing as that of processor and or memory . For example display may be an external display such as a computer monitor television set or any other stand alone form of electronic display. In other examples display may be integrated into the housing of a laptop computer mobile device or other form of computing device having an integrated display.

Content sources may be one or more electronic devices connected to network that provide content to devices connected to network . For example content sources may be computer servers e.g. FTP servers file sharing servers web servers etc. or combinations of servers e.g. data centers cloud computing platforms etc. . Content may include but is not limited to webpage data a text file a spreadsheet images search results other forms of electronic documents and applications executable by client device . For example content source may be an online search engine that provides search result data to client device in response to a search query. In another example content source may be a first party web server that provides webpage data to client device in response to a request for the webpage. Similar to client device content sources may include processors and memories respectively that store program instructions executable by processors . For example memory of content source may include instructions such as web server software FTP serving software and other types of software that cause content source to provide content via network .

According to various implementations content sources may provide webpage data to client device that includes one or more content tags e.g. one or more scripts or other instructions included in the webpage data . In general a content tag may be any piece of webpage code associated with the action of including third party content with a first party webpage. For example a content tag may define a slot on a webpage for third party content a slot for out of page third party content e.g. an interstitial slot whether third party content should be loaded asynchronously or synchronously whether the loading of third party content should be disabled on the webpage whether third party content that loaded unsuccessfully should be refreshed the network location of a content source that provides the third party content e.g. content sources content selection service etc. a network location e.g. a URL associated with clicking on the third party content how the third party content is to be rendered on a display a command that causes client device to set a browser cookie e.g. via a pixel tag that sets a cookie via an image request one or more keywords used to retrieve the third party content and other functions associated with providing third party content with a first party webpage. For example content source may provide webpage data that causes client device to retrieve third party content from content selection service . In another implementation content may be selected by content selection service and provided by content source as part of the first party webpage data sent to client device . In a further example content selection service may cause client device to retrieve third party content from a specified location such as memory or content sources .

Content selection service may also be one or more electronic devices connected to network . Content selection service may be a computer server e.g. an FTP server a file sharing server a web server etc. or a combination of servers e.g. a data center a cloud computing platform etc. . Content selection service may have a processor and a memory that stores program instructions executable by processor . In various cases processor may represent a single processor or a combination of processors in electronic communication with one another. Similarly memory may represent a single memory device or a combination of memory devices in communication with processor .

Content selection service may be configured to select third party content for client device i.e. content selection service may provide a third party content selection service . In one implementation the selected third party content may be provided by content selection service to client device via network . For example content source may upload the third party content to content selection service . Content selection service may then provide the third party content to client device to be presented in conjunction with first party content provided by any of content sources . In other implementations content selection service may provide an instruction to client device that causes client device to retrieve the selected third party content e.g. from memory of client device from content source etc. . For example content selection service may select third party content to be provided as part of a first party webpage being visited by client device or within a first party application being executed by client device e.g. within a game messenger application etc. .

In some implementations content selection service may be configured to select content based on a device identifier associated with client device . In general a device identifier refers to any form of data that may be used to represent a device or a piece of software that receives content selected by content selection service . In some implementations a device identifier may be associated with one or more other device identifiers e.g. a device identifier for a mobile device a device identifier for a home computer etc. . Device identifiers may include but are not limited to cookies device serial numbers mobile device identifiers international mobile station equipment identity IMEI numbers media access control MAC addresses telephone numbers other hardware or software based numbers user profile data network addresses combinations thereof and identifiers derived therefrom. For example a cookie set on client device may be used to identify client device to content selection service within a web browser application on client device .

Content selection service may be configured to allow the user of client device to control which information about the user is collected and used by content selection service via a device identifier. In addition to the extent that content selection service does collect and use information about the user the data may be anonymized such that the user s identity cannot be determined by analyzing the collected data. In other words the user of client device may control what types of information about the user is collected by content selection service and how the information is used. In one implementation the user of client device may set one or more preferences e.g. as part of an online profile that control how content selection service collects and uses information about the user. In another implementation content selection service may set a cookie or other device identifier on client device that signifies that the user of client device has elected not to allow content selection service to store information regarding him or her.

If the user of client device has elected to allow content selection service to use information regarding himself or herself content selection service may use history data associated with a device identifier to select relevant content for the corresponding user. History data may be any data associated with a device identifier that is indicative of an online event e.g. visiting a webpage interacting with presented content conducting a search making a purchase downloading content etc. . Based in part on the analyzed history data content selection service may select third party content to be provided in conjunction with first party content e.g. as part of a displayed webpage as a pop up within a video game within another type of application etc. . Additional data associated with a device identifier may include but is not limited to the device type of client device e.g. whether client device is a desktop or mobile device the location of client device or a search query generated by client device . For example content selection service may select third party content to be provided as part of a first party webpage or in conjunction with search results from one of content sources .

Content selection service may analyze the history data associated with a device identifier to identify one or more topics that may be of interest. For example content selection service may perform text and or image analysis on a webpage from content source to determine one or more topics of the webpage. In some implementations a topic may correspond to a predefined interest category used by content selection service . For example a webpage devoted to the topic of golf may be classified under the interest category of sports. In some cases interest categories used by content selection service may conform to a taxonomy e.g. an interest category may be classified as falling under a broader interest category . For example the interest category of golf may be Sports Golf Sports Individual Sports Golf or under any other hierarchical category. Similarly content selection service may analyze the content of a first party webpage accessed by client device to identify one or more topical categories for the webpage. For example content selection service may use text or image recognition on the webpage to determine that the webpage is devoted to the topical category of Sports Golf.

Content selection service may receive history data indicative of one or more online events associated with a device identifier. In implementations in which a content tag causes client device to request content from content selection service such a request may include a device identifier for client device and or additional information e.g. the webpage being loaded the referring webpage etc. . For example content selection service may receive and store history data regarding whether or not third party content provided to client device was selected using an interface device e.g. the user of client device clicked on a third party hyperlink third party image etc. . Content selection service may store such data to record a history of online events associated with a device identifier. In some cases client device may provide history data to content selection service without first executing a content tag. For example client device may periodically send history data to content selection service or may do so in response to receiving a command from a user interface device. In some implementations content selection service may receive history data from content sources . For example content source may store history data regarding web transactions with client device and provide the history data to content selection service .

Content selection service may apply one or more weightings to an interest or product category to determine whether the category is to be associated with a device identifier. For example content selection service may impose a maximum limit to the number of product or interest categories associated with a device identifier. The top n number of categories having the highest weightings may then be selected by content selection service to be associated with a particular device identifier. A category weighting may be based on for example the number of webpages visited by the device identifier regarding the category when the visits occurred how often the topic of the category was mentioned on a visited webpage or any online actions performed by the device identifier regarding the category. For example topics of more recently visited webpages may receive a higher weighting than webpages that were visited further in the past. Categories may also be subdivided by the time periods in which the webpage visits occurred. For example the interest or product categories may be subdivided into long term short term and current categories based on when the device identifier visited a webpage regarding the category.

With the user s permission content selection service may receive location information from client device . The location information may be determined by client device itself by content selection service or by another device on network . In some cases client device may include location determining hardware such as a global positioning system GPS receiver. In further cases client device may utilize triangulation or another technique to determine its location using network signals received by client device e.g. cellular signals etc. . In some cases client device content selection service or another device may determine the location of client device based on a network access point used by client device . For example if client device accesses network via a WiFi hotspot associated with a particular coffee shop any of the devices in system may use this information to determine that the location of client device is in or near the coffee shop. In some implementations a content tag of a webpage e.g. an embedded webpage script may cause client device to report its location to content selection service. In further implementations a stand alone application e.g. a mobile application executed by client device may report the location of client device to content selection service .

If the user of client device has elected to share location information with content selection service content selection service may use this information to select third party content for client device . For example content selection service may provide an advertisement to client device that alerts the user to a sale at a nearby retail establishment. Thus content selection service may use the location of client device to select third party content that may be relevant to the user s current location. After use content selection service may delete the location information or may flag the location information as ineligible for future use e.g. content selection service may only base the content selection on the current location of the device and not on a stored history of locations to ensure the privacy of a user.

Content selection service may be configured to conduct a content auction among third party content providers to determine which third party content is to be provided to client device . For example content selection service may conduct a real time content auction in response to client device requesting first party content from one of content sources or executing a first party application. Content selection service may use any number of factors to determine the winner of the auction. For example the winner of a content auction may be based in part on the third party provider s bid and or a quality score for the third party provider s content e.g. a measure of how likely the user of client device is to click on the content . In other words the highest bidder is not necessarily the winner of a content auction conducted by content selection service in some implementations.

Content selection service may be configured to allow third party content providers to specify parameters as part of an account to control how and when the provider participates in content auctions. An account of a provider may include any number of bid related parameters such as a minimum bid amount a maximum bid amount a target bid amount or one or more budget amounts e.g. a daily budget a weekly budget a total budget etc. . In some cases a bid amount may correspond to the amount the third party provider is willing to pay in exchange for their content being presented at client device . In other words the bid amount may be on a cost per impression or cost per thousand impressions CPM basis. In further cases a bid amount may correspond to a specified action being performed in response to the third party content being presented at a client device. For example a bid amount may be a monetary amount that the third party content provider is willing to pay should their content be clicked on at the client device thereby redirecting the client device to the provider s webpage. In other words a bid amount may be a cost per click CPC bid amount. In another example the bid amount may correspond to an action being performed on the third party provider s website such as the user of client device making a purchase. Such bids are typically referred to as being on a cost per acquisition CPA or cost per conversion basis.

An account created via content selection service may also include selection parameters that control when a bid is placed on behalf of a third party content provider in a content auction. If the third party content is to be presented in conjunction with search results from a search engine for example the selection parameters may include one or more sets of search keywords. For example the third party content provider may only participate in content auctions in which a search query for golf resorts in California is sent to a search engine. Other parameters that control when a bid is placed on behalf of a third party content provider may include but are not limited to a topic identified using a device identifier s history data e.g. based on webpages visited by the device identifier the topic of a webpage or other first party content with which the third party content is to be presented a geographic location of the client device that will be presenting the content or a geographic location specified as part of a search query. In some cases a selection parameter may designate a specific webpage website or group of websites with which the third party content is to be presented. For example an advertiser selling golf equipment may specify that they wish to place an advertisement on the sports page of an particular online newspaper.

In various implementations content selection service may be configured to suggest a location based bid modifier to a third party content provider. In general a bid modifier refers to any adjustment value used by content selection service to adjust an auction bid of a third party content provider based on the location of the device to which the provider may send content. The bid modifier may be for example a percentage or dollar amount adjustment to the base auction bid of the content provider. In some cases content selection service may present a bid modifier as part of a finalized bid amount e.g. the service may present the modified bid amount to the provider . For example content selection service may suggest that a third party advertiser increase his or her auction bids by 75 for devices that are located within a certain range to the physical store of the advertiser. In some implementations a location based bid modifier may be used in conjunction with another location based auction parameter. For example one auction parameter may control whether or not the provider even places a bid in a content auction e.g. no bid may be submitted if the subject client device is outside of a predefined range to the provider s establishment while a bid modifier value may control the submitted auction bid when the device is within the defined range. For example an advertiser may specify to content selection service that he does not want to advertise to users that are located more than one hundred miles outside of San Francisco and may use a location based bid modifier to increase his auction bids if a given user is within one mile of the advertiser s restaurant.

Content selection service may determine a location based bid modifier using information received about the business of a third party content provider. The received information may include for example data indicative of the physical location of the provider s establishment the average transaction amount at the establishment the likelihood of a visitor to the establishment completing a transaction and or the expected ROI of the provider from placing advertisements. In one implementation content selection service may calculate a location based bid modifier based on the following calculations 

In some implementations content selection service may take into account the likelihood of a user visiting a physical establishment when calculating a suggested bid modifier. For example content selection service may use the above calculation for the bid modifier if there is a 100 probability of the user of client device visiting the establishment of the third party content provider e.g. the location of client device corresponds to the location of the establishment . However as the user s location begins to differ from that of the establishment the likelihood of the user visiting the establishment may also decrease. In one implementation content selection service may calculate one or more bid modifiers as a function of a travel value r as follows 

Content selection service may request information regarding the maximum travel value associated with the establishment of a third party content provider. In other words content selection service may prompt a third party content provider for the maximum distance or time that a potential customer would be willing to travel to the provider s establishment. For example a potential customer of a build it yourself furniture outlet may be willing to travel up to sixty miles to visit the outlet whereas a potential customer of a fast food restaurant may be willing to travel ten miles at maximum.

In various implementations content selection service may determine the probability of a user visiting the physical establishment of a third party content provider as a decay function. For example content selection service may model the probability of the user visiting the establishment based on the maximum travel value specified by the third party content provider. In one example content selection service may calculate a probability P of a visit as follows where r represents the travel value associated with the establishment and is an unknown parameter. In other words content selection service may model the probability of a visit to the location as an exponential decay function in some implementations. To determine the value of for the model content selection service may assign a minimum probability to the specified maximum travel value. For example assume that the probability of a user outside of the specified range of 10 miles visiting the establishment is 5 . In such a case content selection service may solve the exponential decay function at this travel value to determine the value of . For example content selection service may calculate the following 10 0.05 

Content selection service may provide one or more bid modifier values to a device associated with a third party content provider as suggestions. For example content selection service may suggest the maximum bid modifier given the provider s responses and adjust the bid modifier downward for client devices located outside of a certain distance range e.g. devices located within one mile of the provider s establishment may receive the maximum adjusted auction bid . In another example content selection service may present multiple bid adjustment values corresponding to different travel value ranges for review by the third party content provider. In one implementation content selection service may automatically assign the generated bid adjustment value to the account of the third party content provider.

In one example assume that a third party content provider specifies to content selection service that a prospective customer is typically willing to travel up to sixty miles to visit the provider s physical store. In such a case content selection service may assign a minimum probability of a visit to this distance. For example content selection service may assign a minimum probability of a visit to the store of 5 if a device is located sixty or more miles from the store. Content selection service may also use these values to model the probability of a visit if a device is located within sixty miles of the store. For example content selection service may calculate an exponential decay function as follows dist 60 5 where distis the maximum distance specified by the content provider and 5 is the minimum probability of a visit to the store as a function. Solving for gives the following 

Referring now to an illustration is shown of electronic display displaying an example first party webpage . Electronic display is in electronic communication with processor which causes visual indicia to be displayed on electronic display . As shown processor may execute a web browser stored in memory of client device to display indicia of content received by client device via network . In other implementations another application executed by client device may incorporate some or all of the functionality described with regard to web browser e.g. a video game a chat application etc. .

Web browser may operate by receiving input of a uniform resource locator URL via a field from an input device e.g. a pointing device a keyboard a touch screen etc. . For example the URL http www.example.org weather.html may be entered into field . Processor may use the inputted URL to request data from a content source having a network address that corresponds to the entered URL. In other words client device may request first party content accessible at the inputted URL. In response to the request the content source may return webpage data and or other data to client device . Web browser may analyze the returned data and cause visual indicia to be displayed by electronic display based on the data.

In general webpage data may include text hyperlinks layout information and other data that may be used to provide the framework for the visual layout of first party webpage . In some implementations webpage data may be one or more files of webpage code written in a markup language such as the hypertext markup language HTML extensible HTML XHTML extensible markup language XML or any other markup language. For example the webpage data in may include a file weather.html provided by the website www.example.org. The webpage data may include data that specifies where indicia appear on first party webpage such as text . In some implementations the webpage data may also include additional URL information used by web browser to retrieve additional indicia displayed on first party webpage . For example the file weather.html may also include one or more instructions used by processor to retrieve images from their respective content sources.

Web browser may include a number of navigational controls associated with first party webpage . For example web browser may be configured to navigate forward and backwards between webpages in response to receiving commands via inputs e.g. a back button a forward button etc. . Web browser may also include one or more scroll bars which can be used to display parts of first party webpage that are currently off screen. For example first party webpage may be formatted to be larger than the screen of electronic display . In such a case the one or more scroll bars may be used to change the vertical and or horizontal position of first party webpage on electronic display .

First party webpage may be devoted to one or more topics. For example first party webpage may be devoted to the local weather forecast for Freeport Me. In some implementations a content selection server such as content selection service may analyze the contents of first party webpage to identify one or more topics. For example content selection service may analyze text and or images to identify first party webpage as being devoted to weather forecasts. In some implementations webpage data for first party webpage may include metadata that identifies a topic.

In various implementations content selection service may select some of the content presented on first party webpage e.g. an embedded image or video etc. or in conjunction with first party webpage e.g. in a pop up window or tab etc. . For example content selection service may select third party content to be included on webpage . In some implementations one or more content tags may be embedded into the code of webpage that defines a content field located at the position of third party content . Another content tag may cause web browser to request additional content from content selection service when first party webpage is loaded. Such a request may include one or more keywords a device identifier for client device or other data used by content selection service to select content to be provided to client device . In response content selection service may select third party content for presentation on first party webpage .

According to various implementations one or more content tags included in the webpage code for webpage may cause web browser to report location information to the content selection service as part of a content selection request. In some cases an embedded script on webpage may cause web browser to access an application programming interface API of another application that determines the location of client device . For example web browser may relay location information to content selection service via an API of a navigation program executed by client device . In further cases web browser may itself determine the location of client device e.g. web browser may be configured to access location determining hardware of client device . In yet another case the location information reported by web browser may be a network address or network access point that is used by content selection service to determine a location of client device . For example content selection service may use a received IP address or a known WiFi hotspot to identify the location of client device .

Content selection service may select third party content e.g. an advertisement by conducting a content auction in some implementations. Content selection service may also determine which third party content providers compete in the auction based in part on account parameters set by the providers. For example only content providers that specified a topic that matches that of webpage an interest category of a device identifier accessing webpage or a location associated with client device may compete in the content auction. Based on bidding parameters for these third party content providers content selection service may compare their bid amounts quality scores and or other values to determine the winner of the auction and select third party content for presentation with webpage .

According to various implementations a location associated with client device may be used by content selection service to determine which third party content providers participate in a content auction and or to determine the bids of the auction participants. In one implementation a third party content provider may not even submit an auction bid if the location of client device is outside of a specified geographic area e.g. an advertiser may specify that he only wishes to advertise to devices located in California . In a further implementation the submitted bid may be a function of a location based bid modifier e.g. a base bid may be adjusted upward if the user is located in or near the establishment of the content provider . In a further implementation a bid modifier may be adjusted based in part on a travel value that defines a relationship between the location of client device and a physical establishment of the content provider e.g. a travel time a travel distance etc. . For example content selection service may generate a higher bid on behalf of a content provider if client device is close to provider s establishment than if client device is farther away from the establishment. In other words one or more location based bid modifiers may be used to determine the auction bid submitted on behalf of a third party content provider for the ability to place content in the location of third party content .

In the example shown assume that client device is located several blocks away from the physical establishment The Local Burger Stand which is located at 3 Main Street. Also assume that the proprietor of the restaurant has created an account with content selection service to advertise the restaurant. As part of the account the proprietor of the restaurant accept a suggested bid modifier value that increases his auction bids by 50 for client devices that are located within half of a mile of the restaurant. The resulting auction bid may then be used by content selection service to determine that the proprietor of the restaurant has won the content auction and select third party content e.g. an advertisement for the restaurant for presentation on webpage .

In some implementations content selection service may provide third party content directly to client device . In other implementations content selection service may send a command to client device that causes client device to retrieve third party content . For example the command may cause client device to retrieve third party content from a local memory if third party content is already stored in memory or from a networked content source. In this way any number of different pieces of content may be placed in the location of third party content on first party webpage . In other words one user that visits first party webpage may be presented with third party content and a second user that visits first party webpage may be presented with different content. Other forms of content e.g. an image text an audio file a video file etc. may be selected by content selection service for display with first party webpage in a manner similar to that of third party content . In further implementations content selected by content selection service may be displayed outside of first party webpage . For example content selected by content selection service may be displayed in a separate window or tab of web browser may be presented via another software application e.g. a text editor a media player etc. or may be downloaded to client device for later use.

Referring now to an illustration is shown of electronic display showing first party search results with third party content. Similar to webpage in client device may access a first party search engine via network by executing a web browser . In other implementations the search engine may provide search results for display by client device within a stand alone application. For example a navigation application executed by client device may include a search feature that allows search results from the search engine to be presented within the application.

As shown the first party search engine accessed by client device may provide a webpage to client device that is configured to allow for searches and search results to be updated on the fly. For example webpage may include a search field that receives a search query and webpage may also display search results obtained using the query. In other implementations search field may be displayed separately from the search results e.g. search field and the search results may appear on different webpages screens etc. . Search field is generally configured to receive one or more search terms to be searched by the search engine. For example the search term restaurants may be entered into search field and used to search for links to online resources devoted to restaurants. A search query may be entered into search field via a touch screen display keyboard a microphone e.g. via voice recognition or another user interface device of client device .

In response to receiving the search query entered into search field the search engine may retrieve any number of links to websites or other online services regarding the query. For example the search engine may retrieve the URLs of websites devoted to the topic of restaurants and provide them as hyperlinks on webpage as search results. In some implementations the search engine may maintain an index of keywords used on webpages or other resources. Search results may then be ordered by the search engine based on the relevancy of the indexed webpages relative to the search query. A summary of the webpage or other resource may also be provided on webpage by the search engine. For example hyperlink may have an associated description that gives more detail about the linked webpage. Since hyperlinks are presented as search results based solely on their relevancy to the search query they may be considered first party content.

In addition to webpage including hyperlinks as search results webpage may also include third party content selected by content selection service . Third party content may be in one example a hyperlink to a third party content provider s website. Third party content may also identify itself as being third party content such as including a notification that the hyperlink is a paid link. Other forms of third party content that may be presented in conjunction with search results may include a location e.g. the location of the nearest restaurant to client device or links to perform online actions such as playing a piece of media content.

Content selection service may conduct a content auction to select third party content . In response to the search query entered into search field content selection service may first determine which third party content providers are to compete in a content auction. For example only third party content providers that specify the search term restaurants may participate in the content auction. Another parameter may also be used to control which third party content providers participate in the auction includes the geographic location of client device . Such a geographic location may correspond to a particular city zip code state country or other area. For example a third party advertiser located in Great Britain may only be interested in advertising to client devices located there and not in the United States of America.

According to various implementations a location based bid modifier may be used by content selection service to generate a content auction bid on behalf of a third party content provider. The bid modifier may adjust a base bid of a third party content provider up or down based on a travel value that relates the location of client device to a physical establishment of the content provider. For example a base bid amount of 1 may be adjusted by 50 e.g. to a final bid of 1.50 if client device is within one mile of the nearest establishment of the third party content provider. In another example the base bid amount may be adjusted upward if client device is determined to be within five minutes travel of the provider s physical establishment. As shown for example third party content may be an advertisement for the restaurant The Local Burger Stand if the bid modifier used by the proprietor of the restaurant and the distance between client device and the restaurant are such that the proprietor has won the content auction.

Referring now to a flow diagram is shown of one implementation of a process for suggesting a location based bid modifier. As shown process includes receiving data indicative of a likelihood of a patron of a physical establishment completing a transaction step receiving an average transaction amount for the establishment step receiving an expected ROI step receiving a base auction bid amount step calculating a content placement cost for an average transaction step determining a location based auction bid modifier step and providing the bid modifier for display step . Process may be implemented by one or more computing devices such as content selection service shown in . In general process allows a third party content provider such as an advertiser to determine a location based bid modifier for use in a content auction.

Still referring to and in more detail process includes receiving data indicative of a likelihood of a patron of an establishment completing a transaction at the establishment step . A transaction may be any form of action performed by a visitor to the establishment that is desired by the third party content provider. For example a transaction may be but is not limited to a patron of the establishment making a purchase signing a lease agreement signing up for a marketing list signing up for a membership voting donating blood or performing any other action that may be desired by the third party content provider. For example an online advertiser may specify to a content selection service that on average 80 of the visitors to the advertiser s physical store complete a purchase. The received likelihood may correspond to any time period or multiple time periods in various implementations. For example the received likelihood of a completed transaction may be an overall average for the content provider or for a specific time period. In another example the likelihood of a completed transaction at the establishment may be higher during a holiday or sales event than during other time periods. In such a case multiple likelihood values may be received corresponding to the different time periods. In some cases the received data may include the raw data used by content selection service to calculate the likelihood value such as the raw number of visitors to the establishment and the number of completed transactions.

Yet still referring to process includes receiving data indicative of an average transaction amount for the establishment step . An average transaction amount may be a dollar amount associated with a completed transaction or any other amount that quantifies the value of a completed transaction to the third party content provider. For example a furniture retailer may specify that the average transaction amount at her retail location is 2 500 while the proprietor of a hamburger stand may specify that the average transaction amount at his restaurant is 5.

Still referring to process includes receiving data indicative of an expected ROI step . In general the specified ROI may correspond to a difference between an amount spent by a content provider to place third party content and an expected transaction amount that resulted from the placement. For example the specified ROI may correspond to the following 

Yet still referring to process includes receiving data indicative of a base auction bid amount step . In various implementations the base bid amount may correspond to a bid amount that a content provider is willing to pay to place content on a client device regardless of the location of the client device. For example a content provider may be willing to pay 1 to place an advertisement on a mobile device regardless of the location of the mobile device. Another location based content selection parameter may also control whether or not the base bid amount is even submitted on behalf of a content provider. For example a content provider may set a parameter that specifies that advertisements are to be provided to devices located in California only and a base bid of 1 to advertise to devices in California regardless of their proximity to the provider s establishment. In one implementation the base bid amount may take into account other non location based content selection parameters. For example the base bid amount may correspond to an amount an advertiser is willing to bid if the client device is a mobile device that runs a particular operating system.

Yet still referring to process includes calculating a content placement cost for an average transaction step . In various implementations the content placement cost may correspond to the amount of money that a third party content provider agrees to pay a content selection service for the ability to provide the provider s content to a client device. For example the content placement cost may be a content auction bid amount used by the content selection service to select the provider s content for placement at a client device. In one implementation the content placement cost may be calculated using the data indicative of the likelihood of a completed transaction the average transaction amount and the expected ROI received in steps . For example the content placement cost may be calculated by solving the following 

Still referring to process includes determining a bid modifier step . In various implementations a bid modifier may be determined using the cost calculated in step as follows 

Still referring to process includes providing the bid modifier for display step . In various implementations the bid modifier determined in step may be provided to a computing device associated with the third party content provider. For example the content selection service may suggest that a content provider increase his or her base bids by 12.5 for certain devices. In one implementation the content selection service may prompt the provider to accept the bid modifier before using the calculated value. In another implementation the content selection service may automatically use the bid modifier in future content auctions and provide a notification to the content provider.

As noted previously a bid modifier calculated via process may correspond to a client device that has a 100 probability of visiting the physical establishment of the content provider. For example the bid modifier determined via process may be used for client devices that are located in or near the establishment. In some implementations the bid modifier calculated via process may be adjusted further based on a travel value. For example one or more bid modifier values may be calculated by multiplying the bid modifier from process by a probability that a user will visit the provider s establishment. The probability of a visit may be a function of the amount of travel time to the establishment by the device the distance along a path separating the device and the establishment a direct distance separating the establishment and the device or any other travel value that relates the location of the device to the location of the establishment. In one implementation the probability of a visit to the establishment may be modeled using a discrete exponential decay function. For example the probability of a user visiting the physical establishment of a third party content provider may be treated as 100 within one mile of the establishment 80 if the user is between one mile and five miles of the establishment etc. up to a maximum travel value threshold specified by the third party content provider.

In some cases a client device may be located within a predefined travel value range to multiple establishments of the content provider. In one implementation the content selection service may determine a bid modifier for each of the establishments within the travel value range and select the highest bid modifier for use. For example assume that the client device is located five miles away from the nearest restaurant of the content provider and twenty miles away from the next closest restaurant of the provider. Also assume that the content provider specifies that a typical user is willing to drive up to 50 miles to eat at one of the provider s restaurants. In such a case the calculated bid modifier for the closer restaurant may be higher and the selection service may use the modifier to generate the finalized auction bid. In another implementation the content selection service may select the establishment with the lowest travel value for analysis. In yet another implementation the content selection service may take into account other factors in the comparison such as whether the user typically visits one of the two establishments drives by one of the two establishments etc.

Referring now to an illustration is shown of the location of a client device relative to that of a physical establishment according to various implementations. As shown a client device may be located at location and a physical establishment may be located at location . According to various implementations the client device located at location may report its location to a content selection service as part of a content selection request. For example assume that client device shown in is located at location . In such a case client device may provide data indicative of location to content selection service as part of a request for third party content.

According to various implementations a content selection service may determine a travel value using the location data received from the client device located at location . In general the travel value may be any value that relates locations and . In one implementation the travel value may be a function of a radius e.g. a direct distance value separating locations and . In another implementation the travel value may be a distance along a path that separates locations and . For example path may correspond to the path that the user located at location may actually travel to arrive at the establishment located at location . Path may be determined as a shortest path or may also take into account other factors such as one way streets traffic and other such factors that may affect how a user is likely to travel to location . In some implementations the content selection service may determine a mode of transportation for the client device and use this information to determine path . For example the content selection service may determine that the client device is traveling in an automobile based on its velocity and or location e.g. in the middle of the street . Other forms of transportation that may be determined by the content selection service may include walking public transportation e.g. busses trains etc. or the like.

In some implementations the travel value determined by the content selection service may be a travel time relating locations and . For example the content selection service may estimate the amount of time that it would take an automobile at location to travel along path to arrive at the establishment located at location . If a temporal travel value is used the travel value may be based in part on a determined mode of transportation e.g. walking vs. driving etc. and or other factors that may affect the travel time e.g. traffic detours etc. .

The content selection service may use a travel value that relates locations and to determine a probability of the user located at location visiting the physical establishment located at location after viewing third party content associated with the establishment. For example content selection service shown in may determine the probability of the user of client device located at location visiting the restaurant at location after viewing an advertisement for The Local Burger Stand. In various implementations the visit probability may be modeled as a decay function such as an exponential decay function a linear decay function or any other decay function in which the probability of a visit decreases as the travel value increases. In one implementation the decay function may also be a discrete function in which ranges of travel values are assigned the same visit probability. For example the visit probability may be 80 if the client device at location is between ten and twenty miles away from location .

According to various implementations a visit probability determined by a content selection service may be used by the service to determine a bid modifier. For example assume that the service has calculated a bid modifier of 20 assuming that the client device is located at location e.g. the user is already in the establishment . Thus the calculated bid modifier may be at a maximum since there is a 100 probability of the user visiting the establishment. However if the location of the client device does not match that of the physical establishment of the content provider or is outside of a certain range the content selection service may adjust the bid modifier using the visit probability. For example assume that the travel distance along path is 0.75 miles and that the associated probability of a visit at this distance is 85 . In such a case the content selection service may adjust the maximum bid modifier downward to reflect the lower probability of a visit. For example the overall bid modifier may be 85 20 14.45 which may be used by the service to increase the base bid of the content provider associated with the establishment at location .

Referring now to an illustration is shown of one implementation of an electronic display presenting a suggested bid modifier. As shown an interface screen may prompt a user associated with a third party content provider for certain information used to determine a suggested bid modifier. In one implementation may be used to modify an account of the third party content provider with a content selection service.

Interface screen may include one or more inputs for the location or locations of the content provider s physical establishments. For example The Local Burger Stand may be located at 3 Main Street Anywhere U.S.A. In other implementations interface screen may employ other input mechanism to receive multiple locations. For example interface screen may include multiple input boxes a selectable map a mechanism to upload a file e.g. a text file spreadsheet or other file containing establishment locations or other inputs to enter the locations of a content provider s physical establishments.

Interface screen may include an input configured to receive a maximum travel value. In some implementations interface screen may also include an input configured to receive a travel value type if the content selection service supports multiple travel values. For example the third party content provider may specify via inputs that a typical user is willing to travel up to ten miles to the provider s physical establishment located at 3 Main Street. Other example travel value types that may be selected via input may include but are not limited to direct distances distances along a travel path travel times or the like. In various implementations the content selection service may use the inputs received via inputs and to model a probability of a user visiting the location specified via input . For example the travel value received via input may be associated with a minimum visit probability the location received via input may be associated with a maximum visit probability and one or more probabilities there between may be modeled as a function of the travel value.

Interface screen may include various inputs that request information regarding the business of the third party content provider. In one implementation input may be configured to request an average transaction amount at the physical establishment specified via input . Input may be configured to receive a value that represents the likelihood of a visitor to the establishment completing a transaction e.g. a probability or other value . Input may be configured to receive a base bid amount that the third party content provider wishes to use for devices located outside of the maximum travel value specified via input . Input may be configured to receive an expected ROI of the third party content provider that would result from the placement of the provider s third party content.

Interface screen may include an input configured to cause the content selection service to calculate one or more bid modifiers when selected. For example interface screen may display a set of one or more bid modifiers that are based in part on the data received via inputs . In some implementations the content selection service may use a visit probability function to determine multiple bid modifier values. For example a discrete visit probability model may have probabilities corresponding to different distance ranges in set shown on interface screen . The visit probabilities associated with the different travel ranges in set may be used to determine overall bid modifiers that are functions of the travel distances. For example bid modifier may correspond to the maximum visit probability e.g. the user may be the most likely to visit the establishment when located within a mile of the establishment . Similarly bid modifier may indicate that the base bid amount specified via input is suggested for use when the client device is located more than ten miles from the physical establishment. For example the content provider may still wish to advertise to users located outside of the maximum travel distance but only use a base bid amount since the advertisement is unlikely to prompt the user to visit the establishment immediately. In between bid modifiers and may be any number of other bid modifiers that represent a sliding scale of visit probabilities that vary with the travel distance. For example bid modifier may correspond to an 80 visit probability while bid modifier may correspond to a 10 visit probability.

Bid modifiers may be processed in a number of ways by the content selection service. In one implementation the content selection service may automatically apply bid modifiers to the entire account of the content provider a campaign of the content provider a content group e.g. one or more pieces of third party content of the content provider or to a specific piece of third party content of the provider. In another implementation the content selection service may allow the third party content provider to confirm the use of one or more of bid modifiers . For example the content provider may elect to use bid modifier when the client device is located within one mile of the provider s establishment but may elect not to use bid modifiers at all. In yet another implementation only bid modifier may be presented to the third party content provider and interface screen may indicate that the bid modifier will be adjusted downward as the travel value increases.

Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on one or more computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices . Accordingly the computer storage medium may be tangible.

The operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

The term client or server include all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing. The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LCD liquid crystal display OLED organic light emitting diode TFT thin film transistor plasma other flexible configuration or any other monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball etc. or a touch screen touch pad etc. by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending webpages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The features disclosed herein may be implemented on a smart television module or connected television module hybrid television module etc. which may include a processing circuit configured to integrate Internet connectivity with more traditional television programming sources e.g. received via cable satellite over the air or other signals . The smart television module may be physically incorporated into a television set or may include a separate device such as a set top box Blu ray or other digital media player game console hotel television system and other companion device. A smart television module may be configured to allow viewers to search and find videos movies photos and other content on the web on a local cable TV channel on a satellite TV channel or stored on a local hard drive. A set top box STB or set top unit STU may include an information appliance device that may contain a tuner and connect to a television set and an external source of signal turning the signal into content which is then displayed on the television screen or other display device. A smart television module may be configured to provide a home screen or top level screen including icons for a plurality of different applications such as a web browser and a plurality of streaming media services a connected cable or satellite media source other web channels etc. The smart television module may further be configured to provide an electronic programming guide to the user. A companion application to the smart television module may be operable on a mobile computing device to provide additional information about available programs to a user to allow the user to control the smart television module etc. In further implementations the features may be implemented on a laptop computer or other personal computer a smartphone other mobile phone handheld computer a tablet PC or other computing device.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking or parallel processing may be utilized.

