---

title: Grid-UMOSFET with electric field shielding of gate oxide
abstract: A trench metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor or UMOSFET, includes a buried region that extends beneath the trench and beyond a corner of the trench. The buried region is tied to a source potential of the UMOSFET, and splits the potential realized across the structure. This effectively shields the electric field from the corners of the trench to reduce gate oxide stress, and resultantly improves device performance and reliability.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08946726&OS=08946726&RS=08946726
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 08946726
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130320
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 855 595 filed Sep. 14 2007 entitled GRID UMOSFET WITH ELECTRIC FIELD SHIELDING OF GATE OXIDE the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention was developed with Government support under contract number FA8650 04 2 2410 awarded by the U.S. Air Force. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to trench MOSFETs or so called UMOSFETs and methods of making such trench MOSFETs and more particularly the present invention relates to shielding the gate oxide of trench MOSFETs from high electric fields.

Trench MOSFETs metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors or so called UMOSFETs are used in high power electronic applications and typically may be made of silicon or silicon carbide SiC . A problem with such devices is that the electric field created in the structure becomes increased or elevated at the bottom corners of the trench. Such increased or elevated electric field stresses the oxide near the corner of the device resulting in poor device performance and or device failure. A conventional solution to this problem is to increase the thickness of the gate oxide at the corner of the trench. This approach however does not decrease the electric field present at the corner of the trench and also can lead to problems with the threshold voltage of the device. Thus a key concern regarding trench MOSFET design is the reduction of the electric field present at the bottom corners of the trench so as to maintain stable operation of the device.

In accordance with a first embodiment a semiconductor device includes in combination a semiconductor device including a substrate of a first conductivity type a drift layer of the first conductivity type over the substrate a channel layer of a second conductivity type on the drift layer the second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type a source layer of the first conductivity type on the channel layer a source contact extending on the source layer a trench extending through the source layer and the channel layer and into the drift layer so that a bottom of the trench is within the drift layer a gate insulating layer on sidewalls and the bottom of the trench a gate within the trench on the gate insulating layer a buried region of the second conductivity type within the drift layer the buried region extending laterally underneath the trench and beyond a corner of the trench so that a shallow region of the drift layer is between the bottom of the trench and the buried region and a conductive via through the source layer the channel layer and the drift layer electrically connecting the source contact to the buried region.

In accordance with another embodiment a grid UMOSFET includes in combination a substrate of a first conductivity type a drift layer of the first conductivity type over the substrate a channel layer of a second conductivity type on the drift layer the second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type a source layer of the first conductivity type on the channel layer a source contact having a plurality of source contact fingers extending on the source layer substantially parallel with respect to each other a plurality of trenches extending substantially parallel with respect to the source contact fingers and through the source layer and the channel layer into the drift layer so that bottoms of the trenches are within the drift layer gate insulating layers on sidewalls and the bottoms of the trenches a plurality of gates respectively within the trenches on the gate insulating layers a plurality of buried regions of the second conductivity type within the drift layer the buried regions respectively extending laterally underneath the trenches and beyond corners of the trenches so that shallow regions of the drift layer are between the bottoms of the trenches and the buried regions and conductive vias through the source layer the channel layer and the drift layer electrically connecting the source contact to the buried regions.

In accordance with a further embodiment a semiconductor device includes in combination a substrate a plurality of semiconductor layers over the substrate the semiconductor layers including a drift layer a channel layer on the drift layer and a source layer on the channel layer a trench MOSFET disposed within the semiconductor layers and a long channel JFET including a buried region within the drift layer the buried region extending laterally underneath the trench MOSFET and beyond a peripheral side edge of the trench MOSFET so that a shallow region of the drift layer is between the trench MOSFET and the buried region the buried region of the long channel JFET is electrically coupled to a source potential applied to the source layer of the trench MOSFET.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the Invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather the embodiments as described are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the concept of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the shape and thickness of the elements and layers may be exaggerated for clarity and are not necessarily drawn to scale. Also like reference numbers are used to refer to like elements throughout the application. Description of well known methods and materials are omitted.

As shown in substrate includes a first main surface and a second main surface opposing first main surface . First and second main surfaces and may be characterized as front and back sides of substrate whereby devices are disposed on or over first main surface . Substrate is silicon carbide SIC having n type conductivity and may have a thickness of about 300 to 500 microns or about 400 microns. Substrate however should not necessarily be limited as silicon carbide or as having n type conductivity but may be other materials such as silicon or GaN. Moreover substrate should not necessarily be limited as a single layer of silicon carbide or other substrate material but may in general be a growth substrate with other intermediate epitaxial layers grown thereon.

As further shown in n type conductivity drift layer is disposed on or over first main surface of substrate p type conductivity channel layer is disposed on drift layer and n type conductivity source layer is disposed on channel layer . Drift layer channel layer and source layer may be epitaxially grown layers of silicon carbide. In the alternative drift layer channel layer and source layer may be silicon or other semiconductor layers such as GaN. Drift layer may have a thickness of about at least 5 m. Channel layer and source layer may respectively have thicknesses of about at least 0.2 m and 0.3 m. It should however be understood that the above noted thicknesses are merely exemplary and that layer thickness may be appropriately selected in view of relevant design constraints and parameters such as blocking voltage. Also in this embodiment drift layer channel layer and source layer are 4H crystal type layers of silicon carbide whereby the top faces of each layer are the Si face.

As also shown in trench is disposed as extending from first main or upper surface of source layer through source layer and channel layer into drift layer . Trench bottom or floor and trench corner are disposed within drift layer . The sidewalls of trench are exposed surfaces of source layer channel layer and drift layer . Trench may have a depth from upper surface of source layer to trench bottom of about 1 m. Gate insulator which is typically silicon dioxide is deposited conformally within trench to cover trench bottom and the trench sidewalls and may have a thickness of about 50 nm. Alternatively gate insulator may be formed by a combination of very thin thermally grown oxide followed by a thinner conformal deposited oxide. Oxide layer is also shown as overlying upper surface of source layer and may have a thickness in a range of about 50 nm. Gate contact is disposed on gate insulator within trench and also on oxide layer above a periphery of trench . It should be understood that taken together gate contact gate insulator drift layer channel layer and source layer constitute a trench MOSFET or UMOSFET which enables control of vertical current flow along the y direction across an inversion layer within channel region as will be subsequently described. It should also be understood that the above noted description and the description that follows pertaining to the UMOSFET shown in applies to the other UMOSFETs evident in .

The device structure shown in also includes buried region within drift layer . Buried region extends laterally along the x direction from an area peripheral a first side the right side in of trench underneath trench and substantially beyond corner of trench to an area peripheral a second side the left side of of trench . The upper surface of buried region may be about 1 m below upper surface of drift layer . A shallow region of drift layer having a thickness in a range of about 1 m is thus sandwiched between trench bottom of trench and upper surface of buried region . In this description buried region has p type conductivity.

As further shown source contact is electrically connected to buried region by conductive via which also has p type conductivity. Conductive via extends from upper surface of source layer within source layer channel layer and drift layer to thus contact buried region . Source contact extends along top surface of source layer and includes embedded contact portion that extends into contact trench formed in a central region of conductive via . Embedded contact portion of source contact is separated from source layer channel layer and drift layer by narrow section of conductive via which is p type conductivity material. Source contact may be a metal such as Ni a metal stack such as Ni Al or a metal alloy such as TiW. The device as completed includes drain contact as disposed on second main or backside surface of substrate . Drain contact may be a metal such as those used for source contact .

As shown in the top layout view of gate contacts and source contacts are respectively arranged in an interdigitated pattern of gate contact fingers and source contact fingers. That is main gate contact includes multiple gate contact fingers which may hereinafter be referred to as gate contacts and main source contact includes multiple source contact fingers which may hereinafter be referred to as source contacts . Gate contacts and source contacts extend substantially parallel with respect to each other along the z direction. Trenches also extend substantially along the z direction whereby gate insulator and gate contacts are disposed within and along the length of trenches . Multiple buried regions are shown by dotted lines in and are respectively disposed under the gate contact source contact pairs. As may be appreciated in view of each buried region extends underneath a corresponding trench not shown along the x direction from the vicinity of source contact to substantially beyond the corner of the corresponding trench. Buried regions are disposed in a grid like manner and also extend in the z direction under the trenches. Conductive vias indicated by dotted lines are beneath source contacts and are spaced apart from each other along the z direction.

As emphasized previously the cross sectional view of the semiconductor device shown in is along section line in and thus illustrates in cross section embedded contact portion of source contact and conductive via . In contrast the cross sectional view of the semiconductor device shown in is along sectional line and thus illustrates in cross section source contact but does not show embedded contact portion and conductive via .

It should be understood that even though only four source contact fingers and five gate contact fingers are shown in the number of respective source and gate contact fingers should not be limited in number as shown. Likewise the number of buried regions and the number of conductive vias along source contacts should not be limited as shown. Such a grid UMOSFET device may include various multiple contact fingers and vias within the spirit and scope of the invention. Also it should be understood that the shape of main source contact and main gate contact the shape of buried regions and the distances between source contact fingers and gate contact fingers may be exaggerated to further understanding. Also like reference numerals are used in and description of the various structural elements of are omitted for the sake of brevity.

Operation of the semiconductor device of this embodiment will now be described with reference to . Upon application of a positive potential to gate contact of the UMOSFET shown in an inversion layer is created in channel base layer at the interface between channel layer and gate insulator at the sidewall of trench . The inversion layer carries current from source layer to drift layer and the current further flows through substrate out to drain contact . The inversion layer is generated at both sides of trench within channel layer so that current flows from source layer through channel layer along both the left and right sides of trench in . The current from the inversion layer on the right side of trench in flows through shallow region of drift layer and together with the current from the inversion layer on the left side of trench flows along buried region out to drain contact . During such normal ON state as thus described there is minimal potential drop within the device and the associated electric field is minimal. Incidentally it should be understood that a voltage applied to the gate results in an associated electric field across gate insulator and that a large gate voltage or a gate insulator that is too thin will result in excessive electric field at the gate insulator and subsequent device failure.

To turn off the UMOSFET in the potential as applied to gate contact is changed to ground potential volts or to a negative voltage depending on device operation parameters. As a result electrons are not attracted to the interface between channel layer and gate insulator along the sidewall of trench . The inversion layer within channel region layer thus no longer exists and a blocking pn junction is formed at channel layer . The channel layer thus blocks voltage across the device and the vertical flow of current across channel layer stops.

In conventional UMOSFET structures without buried region and conductive via under such conditions when the device Is in a voltage blocking state immediately after being turned off a large potential is present at the drain contact and a relatively low or zero potential is present at the source contact. Under such conditions a high electric field is concentrated at the corners of the trench and this stresses the gate oxide within the trench resulting in poor device performance and or device failure of the conventional UMOSFET.

In the semiconductor device of the embodiment of of the present application buried region limits the electric field that penetrates to the corners of trench of the UMOSFET. That is by incorporating buried region within drift layer shallow region of drift layer under trench essentially serves as a long channel. This part of the device structure including buried region and shallow region can be characterized as a long channel JFET junction field effect transistor that effectively shields trench by reducing the strength of the electric field that concentrates at corners of trench .

In greater detail and as described with reference to at trench corner in particular the UMOSFET transitions from an ON state with steady flow of electrons and very little potential difference across the gate region to an OFF state where suddenly the supply of electrons across channel layer has been turned off. When the UMOSFET is turned off the supply of electrons is removed. The depletion region therefore begins to extend from the p n junction between channel layer and drift layer with an associated potential drop across this region. As the depletion region extends the potential drop increases such that in the off state the full applied potential is dropped across the device. The geometry of the device determines how the potential drop is distributed through the device. In the long channel of the JFET separates the gate from the highest electric field at the junction to the buried region . The majority of the potential drop is taken up between buried region and drain contact .

During the OFF state 0 volts or lower is applied to gate contact a large potential is at drain contact and a low potential is at source contact . The device is in a blocking state. If buried region was not present there would be a large potential drop between the p n junction at the interface between channel layer and drift layer and drain contact . This would result in a high electric field at corner of trench . However because buried region is present in the structure shown in and is tied to the low potential at source contact there is not a large potential drop between the p n junction channel layer drift layer and top surface of buried region and thus the electric field present at trench corner is relatively low. There is a larger potential drop between the bottom of buried region and drain contact resulting in a relatively larger electric field there between. However this relatively larger electric field is shielded from trench corner by buried region . The buried region can be characterized as splitting the potential realized across the structure.

It should be understood in view of that the source potential at source contact is shorted to channel layer by conductive via . Source contact is at lower potential than drain contact and thus any p type conductivity region such as channel layer is reversed biased with respect to the potential at drain contact and is therefore voltage blocking. As long as n conductivity type source layer is not in contact with n type conductivity drift layer there is no current flow during the OFF state. That is there is no metal in contact with n type conductivity source layer and n type conductivity drift region without p type conductivity material there between to form a blocking junction.

A method of making the semiconductor device as shown in will now be described with respect to . It should be understood that this description will be presented with reference to cross sectionals of the device taken along section line in . Moreover this description follows wherein the semiconductor layers are silicon carbide substrate drift layer and source layer have n type conductivity and channel layer buried region and conductive via have p type conductivity. However one of ordinary skill should understand that the semiconductor layers may be other materials such as silicon noted previously and that conductivity type may be reversed. The description that follows thus should not be construed as limiting.

With reference to silicon carbide drift sub layer is first epitaxially grown on front surface of substrate as having n type conductivity. Substrate may have a thickness in a range of about 200 to 500 m and a dopant concentration in a range of about 1 10cmto 1 10cm. Drift sub layer may have a thickness of at least about 5 m and a dopant concentration in a range of about 1 10cmto 2 10cm. Drift sub layer may be epitaxially grown using well known techniques such as Metal Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition MOCVD . Nitrogen or phosphorous may be used as n type dopants. Thereafter an implantation mask such as silicon dioxide is deposited using a technique such as Plasma Enhanced Chemical Vapor Deposition PECVD and is patterned on upper surface of drift sub layer using standard photolithographic techniques as would be understood by one of ordinary skill so as to include openings or windows . Buried regions having p type conductivity are thereafter formed through openings in implantation mask using standard ion implantation techniques. Aluminum may be used as the p type dopant and the concentration of buried regions may be at least about 1 10cm. Boron or any other suitable p type dopant may be used as an alternative. Implantation mask is thereafter removed.

As described with respect to an additional drift sub layer having a thickness in a range of about 0.3 m to 2.0 m and having n type conductivity is thereafter epitaxially grown on upper surface and buried regions shown in so as to complete formation of drift layer . This additional drift sub layer may have a dopant concentration in a range of about 1 10cmto 2 10cm. Thereafter channel layer having a thickness in a range of about 0.2 m to 1 m and having p type conductivity is epitaxially grown on upper surface of drift layer . Channel layer may have a dopant concentration in a range of about 1 10cmto 5 10cm. Aluminum or boron may be used as a p type dopant. Subsequent thereto source layer having a thickness in a range of about 0.1 m to 0.5 m and having n type conductivity is epitaxially grown on channel layer . Source layer may have a dopant concentration of at least about 1 10cm. Nitrogen or phosphorous may be used as the n type dopant. These above noted layers may be epitaxially grown using well known techniques.

As described with respect to oxide mask is subsequently patterned on upper surface of source layer as having openings or windows using standard photolithographic techniques. The structure is subsequently etched using a dry etching technique such as reactive ion etching RIE using oxide mask to form contact trenches that extend through source layer and channel layer into drift layer . That is bottom surfaces of contact trenches are shown as disposed below upper surface of drift layer . Thereafter ion implantation is carried out through openings in oxide mask to form conductive vias having p type conductivity and which extend downward from contact trenches to be in contact with respective peripheral areas of buried regions . This ion implantation to form conductive vias is made at close to zero Implantation angle and as a result side wall implantation is dictated by the side wall angle which must be appropriately chosen. The p type dopant is thus implanted laterally into the wall of trenches so that narrow sections of conductive vias form a continuous p region along the sides of trenches from source layer through channel layer and drift layer . In other words trenches are separated in a lateral direction from source layer channel layer and drift layer by narrow section of p type conductivity material. The dopant concentration of conductive vias may be similar to the dopant concentration of buried regions . Oxide mask is then removed and an anneal process is subsequently carried out at a temperature of about 1700 C. or higher.

As described with respect to another oxide mask or layer is subsequently patterned on upper surface of source layer as having openings or windows . Oxide layer is formed so as to fill contact trenches . The structure is subsequently etched using a dry etching technique such as RIE with oxide layer as a mask to form trenches that extend from upper surface of source layer through source layer and channel layer into drift region . Trench bottoms are within drift layer and are thus disposed lower than upper surface of drift layer . Trenches are located above buried regions . Shallow regions of drift layers are respectively disposed intermediate between trench bottoms and buried regions .

As shown in oxide layer remains on upper surface of source layer . The structure is thermally oxidized to form gate insulator within trenches as covering the sidewalls and bottom surfaces of trenches . Alternatively a combination of a thin thermal oxidation and a deposited oxide using a technique such as Low Pressure CVD LPCVD may be used. Gate oxide may have a thickness in the range of about 50 nm. Thereafter a layer of polysilicon is deposited over the entire surface of the structure on oxide layer and thermal oxide within trenches . A mask is then patterned on the polysilicon layer and the polysilicon layer is subsequently etched by RIE for example to form polysilicon gates within trenches . Thereafter oxide layer is etched to be removed from over and within contact trenches using an additional mask made of photoresist for example using standard photolithographic technology thus exposing contact trenches . A metal such as Ni a metal stack such as Ni Al or a metal alloy such as TiW is then deposited over bottom surface of substrate and over the upper surface of the structure on oxide layer and polysilicon gates and to entirely fill contact trenches and the corresponding openings in oxide layer above contact trenches . The contact metal is subsequently etched using standard photolithographic and etching techniques as would be understood by one of ordinary skill so that the metal remains on the entirety of surface of substrate as drain contact and also remains within contact trenches and directly there above as source contacts including embedded portions . The portions of oxide layer in that remain on upper surface of source layer are indicated by reference numeral in .

As noted previously the shape and sizes of the elements have been exaggerated for purposes of explanation. For example trenches in may have a width in the lateral or x direction of about 2 m. Buried regions may extend in the lateral or x direction at least about 1 m past trench corners on both sides of the UMOSFETs.

Although the present invention has been described in detail the scope of the invention should not be limited by the corresponding description and figures. Also the concepts described above should be applicable as well for the case where the conductivity types of channel layer and buried region are reversed to be n type and the conductivity types of source layer drift layer and substrate are reversed to be p type. In this alternative case the potentials as applied to the gate contact the source contact and the drain contact would be inverted as would be understood by one of ordinary skill. Also the structure has been described wherein source layer channel layer and drift layer are 4H crystal type layers of silicon carbide. However in alternative embodiments these layers may all be 6H crystal type layers of silicon carbide or may all be 15R crystal type layers of silicon carbide. Also these above noted layers may in the alternative have the C faces as the top faces. These various changes and modifications of the embodiments as would become apparent to one of ordinary skill should be considered as within the spirit and scope of the invention.

