---

title: System and method to measure force or location on an L-beam
abstract: Force and location sensing systems and methods are disclosed. A method comprises bending a L-beam at an initially unknown location on a force-supporting portion of the L-beam, the L-beam substantially having a tension side and a compression side, measuring a first local stress at a first location on the tension side, measuring a second local stress at a second location on the tension side, measuring a third local stress at a third location on the compression side, and measuring a fourth local stress at a fourth location on the compression side. A weight-sensing storage system capable of tracking removed items is disclosed with a product image captured via a camera, a plurality of sensors on an L-beam, a first signal from the plurality of sensors indicating a first state prior to change of the product image, and a second signal indicating lower strain on the L-beam than the first signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09360383&OS=09360383&RS=09360383
owner: Nate J. Coleman and Aexius, LLC
number: 09360383
owner_city: Rolling Hills Estates
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130404
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application with Pub. No. 20060124365A1 and Ser. No. 11 010 161 to Coleman filed on Dec. 13 2004 allowed on Jan. 4 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein including the file history of the aforementioned allowed patent application.

This invention relates to measurement systems involving force or location in particular to strain based systems where a force is exerted on an L beam having an unknown location and or an unknown force.

Stress measurement systems are known in the related art some non exhaustive examples are U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 597 751 3 724 575 4 858 475 4 936 149 and 5 837 946. However systems in the related art suffer from mechanical complications inaccurate results caused by off level condition fragility imprecision and are often difficult to install or retrofit.

Vertical shear based systems are typical of the current state of the related art. An example is the Routeman refuse truck fork by Vishay. This system is used since the shear load is not affected by placement of the weight on the fork so long as it is actually on the fork distal to the sensor itself. Such vertical shear forces however are small compared to the primary forces of bending in the cantilever beam and fragile load cells with means to allow vertical displacement of the cantilever beam are used to create the weigh system. Such vertical shear based systems generally lack a weigh system using the strain existing in the functional structure. A bending beam type system captures the primary structural strain to overcome the complexity and fragility of vertical shear based systems.

Bending beam systems are known. For example U.S. Pat. No. 3 724 575 to Kutsay discloses obtaining a weight in the vertical direction by resolving two load cells with sensors along a horizontal beam. However such bending beam systems have strain gauges inside an elongated hole within a beam which weakens the beam. Another problem with such bending beam systems is that the sensors are placed closer to the neutral axis of the beam and since the magnitude of stress approaches zero close to the neutral axis stress measurements are thus less accurate. In particular Kutsay does not teach or fairly suggest providing for off level compensation or location of the load on the bending beam and is thus not well suited for use on a vehicle.

A beam form is disclosed in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 20060124365 to Coleman is incorporated by reference herein.

It can be seen therefore that there is a need to increase accuracy by measuring larger bending strain rather than smaller shear strain. It can be seen that there is also a need for greater accuracy in weighing an object by improving accuracy in stress measurement. Also it can be seen that there is a need to improve accuracy by having a sensing system that tends to avoid the neutral axis of the beam. In addition it can be seen that there is a need for a robust lightweight sensing system that is less cumbersome or prone to breakage than conventional shear based systems. Further it can be seen that there is a need to determine location of a load relative to the system. In addition it can be seen that there is a need for a mechanically simpler device which can be easier to install or retrofit onto existing systems. It can also be seen that output difference between tensile and compressive stresses can be used to compensate for off level condition. Additionally it can be seen that there is a need to resolve a weight or force without knowing or controlling its location on the weighing apparatus. Furthermore it can be seen that there is a need to determine load of a mass on a beam which can provide measurements to determine threshold weight costs fees or other business conditions. It can be seen that there is a need to determine location or placement of a load on a cantilever beam so as to alert an operator or manager as to various risks such as load or vehicle tipping or if a pallet being moved in a loading dock is too far off center. Finally it can be seen that there is a need to address a combination of the above problems.

To minimize the limitations in the prior art and to minimize other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification the present invention discloses a method and system for determining the location or force of an object on an L beam.

The description of the preferred embodiments is to be understood as non limiting examples of the present invention. The true scope of the invention is to be understood by the claims and not limited by the preferred embodiments.

An aspect of the invention is to provide greater accuracy in resolving force or location of load on a L beam.

An aspect of the invention is to avoid problems associated with complex mechanical parts prone to breakage.

An aspect of the invention is to reduce or eliminate the need for physical sensors on the force receiving portion of the L beam.

An aspect of the invention is to enhance safety and detection capabilities in waste disposal concerning by way of non limiting illustration an engine block a dead body a broken piece of concrete or other inappropriate items in the waste stream.

In a possible embodiment the invention can be retrofitted onto existing vehicles including onto existing forklift truck forks.

In another possible embodiment the invention can resolve force weight or location of an unknown object based on L beam geometry and known material properties.

In yet another possible embodiment the invention weighs an unknown object on a curved hook using its known geometry.

In the following description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

References throughout the specification to a possible embodiment a preferred embodiment some embodiments an embodiment and like reference to embodiment are non limiting examples to aid in understanding the present invention. An embodiment provides that there is one or more embodiments that can involve the given element or aspect of the invention. Thus multiple instances of an embodiment and like reference do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

This specification provides for specific meanings with respect to the present invention the meanings of which shall be understood as follows 

 Adjoined can refer to a state in which two or more things can be by way of non limiting illustration joined attached molded forged bolted screwed attached affixed welded grafted or any combination thereof.

 Checkout can refer to purchasing one or more products by identifying such product s for payment. Particular products can be identified often by a product ID or equivalent thereof. Checkout is deemed completed when payment is made. In some embodiments of the present invention checkout can occur when a product is registered at checkout but not yet paid for.

 Lateral can refer to a position plane moment or movement perpendicular to gravity or the primary direction of the application of force. Lateral can be used in reference to the present invention in determining force or location when correcting for tilt including but not limited to sensors .

 Lateral force can refer to a force being measured perpendicular to the primary direction of application such as gravity relative to the surface of the earth. Lateral force can affect for example the present invention applied to a mobile vehicle on hilly terrain. Lateral force can be corrected for to determine downward force F. Lateral force can for example be the result of L beam being in an off level condition. By way of non limiting illustration L beam can be angled with the extended end upward which can create an off level condition.

 Moment M can refer to the product of weight W times distance D from the root. Moment varies as one goes out from a particular area such as the root. Moment can be a bending effect. Moment can progressively decrease further away from the root due to leverage principles. Moment at a location on the beam such as the root can increase as the location of the load is moved distal from the root.

 Off level condition can refer to any state of being non perpendicular to the direction of gravity. When used in reference to L beam off level condition can be a planar disorientation with respect to the forward or backward dip rotating in the plane of the beam formed by both leg portion and force receiving portion . By way of non limiting illustration an off level condition is shown in .

 Output when used in reference to sensors can refer to the output of any given sensor to produce a signal that can be received for processing. A non limiting illustration can be outputs of sensors or lateral sensors respectively.

 Product can refer to any item component widget or any physical object or any group or combination thereof whether branded or not.

 Side can refer to a designation not limited to objects having sharp angles. When using tension side and compressive side such sides can refer to opposite rounded portions of a cylindrical shape. Therefore a side is not limited to the six surfaces of a rectangular block. Tension and compression sides can thus refer to opposite areas with reference to the respective reference objects being placed upon a given shape having sides.

 Tilt can refer to any planar disorientation. Tilt can be other than being parallel to the ground. Tilt can be sideways forward backward or any combination such as simultaneous forward and sideways tilt. Further a non limiting illustration of tilt can be in relation to a forklift fork truck having L beam attached thereto driving on a hill and thus creating a condition of tilt. By way of non limiting illustration tilt when used in reference to L beam can refer to a change in the angular relationship such as a sideways movement tilting to the side. Tilt can also be forward or backward change in angular relationship. For example a forward tilt can be a change in angular relationship where the leg portion of L beam rotates toward the unsecured end of the force receiving portion and or away from the secured end at the adjoining region . Backward or rearward tilt can refer to the opposite of such forward tilt. Tilt can also refer to left or right relative to the driver s forward orientation such as when driving on an incline or ramp. Another non limiting illustration of tilt can be lifting a load as the fork assembly is tilted rearward. By way of non limiting illustration tilt can be brought about by any of the following torque bending moment first moment of area second moment of area polar moment of area or moment of inertia.

 Vehicle when used in relation to tilt can refer to a movable or mobile object or device to which an L beam is mounted or any portion of the mounting structure of L beam or an intermediate structure relating to the vehicle or mount of L beam or the vehicle itself or the surface upon which the vehicle is situated.

 Vertical can refer to an orientation parallel to the application of force. By way of non limiting illustration when the present invention is used as a scale to weigh a product vertical with respect to the present invention can be perpendicular to the surface of the earth.

 Weight W can also be referred to implicitly or expressly as force. Weight as commonly used in commerce to quantify an amount of product e.g. lbs. tons etc. can be referred to as a force resulting from an object with mass subject to gravity. A non limiting example of such weight can be referred to be unknown force .

Sensors and are shown in with L beam compression side tension side leg portion and reference line V VI.

Sensors and can each measure local strain at each respective sensor locale. In a preferred embodiment there can be a plurality of sensors the plurality comprising four sensors and where each sensor and comprises a complete Wheatstone bridge.

In a cantilever beam embodiment for example having force receiving portion and no leg portion sensors can be mounted to a plate or membrane there can be two tensile side sensors and two compressive side sensors on force receiving portion or in cantilever beam embodiments on the cantilever beam. A metering and or display device can receive output from the sensors. In an embodiment display can be provided with a central processing unit a memory to receive camera image data timestamp data and target acquisition data and a datastore preferably local data storage. The datastore can be a local database flat files cloud a third party storage service in memory via RAM any other storage medium or any combination thereof.

In some preferred embodiments there can be a pair of sensors and on the tension side of the leg portion of L beam and another pair of sensors and on the compression side of the leg portion of L beam . A person of ordinary skill in the pertinent art would know how to incorporate sensors and . A benefit of having each sensor and as a Wheatstone bridge rather than a resistor or simple strain gauge is that a sensor each being a Wheatstone bridge can be incorporated in the present invention to more accurately generate an output in volts scaled to local stress units. Having any one of sensors and as a Wheatstone bridge can allow millivolt units of measure which can then be scaled to be equal to local bending stress in PSI and large delta values. A benefit of using sensors and to measure tensile and compressive strain can be to overcome problems with conventional shear based measurement devices which are typically very bulky and fragile. Using shear based measurement devices can result in smaller measurement increments that are difficult to analyze being very small. Shear stresses along a beam though unaffected by the point of application of force are typically smaller than primary stresses and can thus generate less signal output than primary stresses. Primary stresses can be compressive and tensile. A benefit of the present invention can be to measure primary stress. Small measurement increments are harder to analyze with high degrees of accuracy a benefit of larger measurement increments measurable with sensors and tend to yield larger delta values for each sensor s respective output. In less preferred embodiments where any sensor and is installed inside a hole the corresponding output less accurately measures local stress. Local stress can refer to a stress at a respective sensor . Some preferred embodiments can have sensors and on the surface of the leg portion of L beam furthest away from the neutral axis III IV . Some possible embodiments can have sensors and less than 0.7 mm within the surface of leg portion such that each sensor and is protected while simultaneously providing close to surface accuracy in measuring tension side and compressive side outputs from each sensor and . Thus output resulting from each surface sensor and can be maximized. In a possible embodiment a group of resistors can be used instead of a group of Wheatstone bridges. However this approach is not preferred because local stress units are not obtained in a manner that is relatively easy to measure since the change in signal is relatively small. A benefit of sensor is to enhance ease of measurement of local stress which can make a significant difference in performing measuring and then calculating weight or location based on local stress. In embodiments where any sensor is a strain gauge a change in resistance for a given sensor can be measured. In most preferred embodiments sensors can each be a Wheatstone bridge thus each sensor can be an arrangement of strain gauges giving a much larger change in signal. In an embodiment sensors can output to a display or system capable of reading the inputs. By way of non limiting illustration hardware and or software can be used to interpret the signals in local stress units given signal changes per any strain via bending on the leg portion of L beam .

L beam can comprise leg portion and force receiving portion . L beam can have two or more adjoined portions. In a possible embodiment there can be adjoining region between leg portion and force receiving portion . L beam can be any shape having at least one terminating end and at least one curve or angle at adjoining region . shows a non limiting example of a 90 degree formation of adjoining region of L beam where it can be understood that leg portion and force receiving portion are joined. L beam can have a portion with a beam like shape by way of non limiting illustration a rod cylindrical shape rounded or unrounded rectangular or non rectangular tapered or non tapered. L beam can be metal or non metal composite alloy or otherwise or any combination thereof. Given that shear based sensors or load cells are often of a fragile or complicated construction a benefit of the present invention with L beam can be to provide a more robust structure while permitting sensing capabilities. In some preferred embodiments L beam can comprise a material which follows Hooke s Law. By way of non limiting illustration L beam can have linear elastic properties. L beam can have a constant Young s Modulus. L beam can be any material with properties including but not limited to elasticity E. Elasticity E of L beam can refer to Young s Modulus known in mechanical engineering.

Further by way of non limiting illustration many steels show a substantially constant Young s Modulus and can thus be a preferred material for L beam . L beam can have an elastic range. Lookup tables for material properties can be used to find known or relatively known constants or known elastic ranges for a given material for L beam .

In addition L beam can be any material known to follow Hooke s law now known or developed in the future. L beam can be made to work with non Hookian materials though the methods taught in this specification can involve compensation for such non Hookian materials. The present invention can incorporate non linear stain gauges which can also be compensated to use the methods presented. L beam can have at least one Poisson ratio. A non limiting example of a Poisson ratio of a rectangular specimen of steel can be about 0.3. In many embodiments L beam can be substantially an L shaped beam whether formed at a 90 degree angle or not. In some embodiments there can be more than one L beam . In most preferred embodiments where L beam is substantially L shaped L beam can comprise two beams roughly forming a 90 degree angle. L beam need not be parallel to the ground. L beam can have a wide range of possible shapes whether curved two straight beams joined at a 90 angle or any other angle other than 180 irregular or otherwise. L beam can include any structure having i known geometry and therefore subject to mathematical analysis based on one or more sensors and ii known material properties preferably to which Hooke s Law can be applied. L beam can in most preferred embodiments have an L shape. By way of non limiting illustration L beam can have the shape of a curve a hook a curved scimitar shape or any shape where the leg portion extends at a different angle than force receiving portion . In some possible embodiments L beam can be inverted may support a platform or incorporate a platform shelf roof beam or any other physical structure fixed or unfixed. L beam can be incorporated into a wide range of applications such as by way of non limiting illustration refuse garbage truck forks forklift truck forks lifts stairs escalators elevators shelves storage containers transports platforms cargo loading equipment cranes mechanical arms static or non static or otherwise. A benefit of L beam can be to accommodate for tilt of off level conditions.

Compression side can be on leg portion . In most preferred embodiments compression side can have sensors and .

Tension side can be on leg portion . Tension side can be substantially opposite compression side . In most preferred embodiments tension side can have sensors and .

Adjoining region can be on leg portion close to the junction of the leg portion and force receiving portion . By way of non limiting illustration placing sensors and near adjoining region such as and are will not have accurate sensor readings. In simulation via finite element analysis the actual results of sensors and were observed to stray significantly from the expected results see Tables 1.1 and 1.2 . Thus placing sensors and near adjoining region are not preferred.

Leg portion can be a solid portion with relative rigid or elastic properties preferably being of a material that follows Hooke s Law. In most preferred embodiments leg portion typically does not directly receive the brunt of unknown force in contrast to force receiving portion . In less preferred embodiments some force can be received on leg portion . In many embodiments leg portion can be substantially vertical. Leg portion need not be a rectangular volume. Leg portion can be substantially vertically positioned in most preferred embodiments. Leg portion can also support weight concurrently with force receiving portion . Protective measures can be taken to protect sensors and on leg portion . Leg portion can allow the configuration of the present invention to determine weight or location perpendicular to the direction of the application of the load. Since sensors and can be on leg portion sensors and can be mounted on the tensile and compression sides of leg portion . In some possible embodiments where L beam is curved leg portion can be any portion other than that which is perpendicular to the direction of force. Thus in such embodiments any of sensors and on leg portion can have more placement variation. In some possible but less preferred embodiments the orientation of leg portion can be horizontal with force receiving portion being vertical. In a preferred embodiment leg portion can be parallel to the vector of unknown force in when unknown force is at least partly perpendicular to force receiving portion . A benefit of leg portion can be to separate force and stress determinations by providing separation from the location where force is applied this can be seen as a way to better protect sensors in some possible embodiments.

Force receiving portion can be an extending portion of L beam other than leg portion . Force receiving portion can join leg portion at adjoining region . In many embodiments force receiving portion can be perpendicular to the direction of the application of force such as unknown force . In most preferred embodiments unknown location can be on force receiving portion . Force receiving portion can have neutral axis I II . The present invention and reference neutral axis I II can be adapted to L beams having widely varied shape. In most embodiments force receiving portion can be a beam like shape. Force receiving portion can have an absence of sensors . A benefit of force receiving portion can be to receive force without sensors to encumber force receiving portion . In some possible embodiments force receiving portion can provide maximized space to receive a load protect sensors and lateral sensors and prevent sensors from being pushed or scraped off by a heavy load which may slide on force receiving portion . Force receiving portion can be capable of receiving an unknown force . Force receiving portion can be capable of receiving unknown location or capable of receiving unknown force having unknown location . A benefit of receiving unknown force or unknown location can be to later determine a respective characteristic of unknown force or unknown location consistent with the present invention and any attribute relating thereto including but not limited to weight height size price cost quantity or other characteristics given other known constraints or known values. A non limiting illustration of determining price and quantity can be where force receiving portion is a tray or receives force upon a tray capable of holding unknown force the unknown force being applied by medication and then determining unknown force of a given medication. Then such information can be associated with a possible range of medications which can include by way of non limiting illustration price manufacturer recent prescription proper distribution count or ideal distribution weight quantity of pills in a medication container or any combination thereof. Unknown force can be the weight of medication placed on connected to upon or otherwise causing to receive stress or strain upon force receiving portion thereby affecting leg portion and sensors thereupon. Force receiving portion can be a cantilever beam attached to a secured end without leg portion . In a possible embodiment force receiving portion without leg portion can be tapered curved or crooked. In a possible embodiment force receiving portion can be a cantilever beam including as specified herein and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 010 161 to Coleman filed on Dec. 13 2004.

Plurality of sensors are shown in with pair of compression side sensors pair of tension side sensors absence of sensors L beam compression side tension side and sensors and . Sensors and are shown on tension side and sensors and are shown on compression side .

Plurality of sensors can be two or more sensors. In most preferred embodiments plurality of sensors can have at least four localized sensors and .

Pair of compression side sensors can be placed other than on force receiving portion . Pair of compression side sensors can be provided on compression side of leg portion such as sensors and .

Pair of tension side sensors can be placed other than on force receiving portion . Pair of tension side sensors can be provided on tension side of leg portion such as sensors and .

Absence of sensors can be on L beam for example other than the positions of sensors . In most preferred embodiments absence of sensors can be on force receiving portion . A benefit of absence of sensors can be to avoid force receiving portion . In most preferred embodiments sensors can be present on leg portion .

Distance d can be a known distance between sensor reference line XII and force receiving portion reference line XIII of L beam . By way of non limiting illustration distance can be a known length shown by reference lines XII and XIII of . Distance can be a known distance from a sensor XII to the surface of force receiving portion XIII . Distance can be substantially along a plane of leg portion in embodiments where leg portion is straight.

Distance h can be a known distance on leg portion . Distance can be a distance between compression side and tension side . Distance can be a distance between opposing sensors for example a distance between sensors and or between and or a distance between a first midpoint between sensors and to a second midpoint between sensors and .

Most preferred embodiments can have four sensors for example sensors and . In a preferred embodiment there can be four Wheatstone bridge type sensors and where each sensor and is capable of measuring four distinct strain areas respectively. Further some possible embodiments can have three sensors for example any three of sensors and . The neutral axis of the substantially vertical portion of the L beam can be found. A first local sensor can be placed in the neutral axis. However this embodiment is not superior because the off level compensation cannot be invoked using the method provided herein. Further the sensor positioned on the neutral axis does not provide significant readings because the compressive and tensile forces are much smaller as the neutral axis is approached and thus cannot be measured as accurately compared to four sensor L beam embodiments which are preferred over three sensor embodiments. Although a two sensor version comprising one tension side and one compression side sensor can resolve a weight the two sensors is not preferred since one of the dimensions cannot be easily interpreted. In a possible three sensor embodiment a front sensor and a back sensor can cancel each other out to get the downward force. An upper and a lower sensor can make off angle correction where the third sensor is either the upper or lower sensor with a known vertical distance. One or more of sensors can be placed on a neutral axis of leg portion line III IV of on leg portion . In a preferred embodiment sensors can be on a side of leg portion . In some preferred embodiments sensors can be on lateral sides of leg portion . In a preferred embodiment sensors can be paired in opposing positions on leg portion . A benefit of one or more of sensors can be to detect and or compensate for a lateral off level condition. Detecting change in sensor output via one or more sensors can be used to compensate for forward and or rearward tilt. Generally two sensor embodiments are not preferred since off level conditions would not be easily detectible or correctable lacking a third measurable dimension.

One benefit of sensors and over traditional vertical shear based sensor systems is that the load on force receiving portion can be accurately measured for example without significant downward displacement of L beam or a mechanism to accommodate capture of shear forces of L beam . Strain can be measured on compression and tension and sides and . There is a change in strain from a point toward the edge of the beam compared to a point near the center of the beam.

After experimenting with bending based measurement devices instead of shear based systems it was found that bending based measurement approach is superior because this approach measures local stress and can obtain larger measurement values and thus greater accuracy. In most preferred embodiments strain gauges can be configured into a Wheatstone bridge.

In a possible embodiment each sensor and can have an input of 10 volts V and an output of 0 100 millivolts mV . In embodiments where sensors are each Wheatstone bridges there can be a theoretical output of up to 10 mV per V of input per each sensor at maximum strain. In practice it was found that only 3 mV V of output can be typical in actual practice. In semiconductor strain gauges gain can be much higher but non linear.

Fcan be the force in the y direction where y represents the direction along the force receiving portion .

Distance a can be a distance perpendicular to and extending from the neutral axis reference line I II in of force receiving portion to sensor .

Variable b can be a distance between two sensors along leg portion . In situations where leg portion is perfectly vertical b can refer to the vertical distance between two tensile side sensors and or between two compression side sensors and . In most preferred embodiments the distance between sensors and substantially equals the distance between sensors and .

Distance is shown in with sensors and L beam leg portion force receiving portion and reference line III IV.

Fcan be the force in the z direction where z represents direction of gravity with respect to the earth and is normally perpendicular the axis of force receiving portion in most preferred embodiments. Calculated Fis shown in column K Table 1.2.

F can be a force at an off angle orientation not parallel to z not parallel to reference line IV III .

Unknown force can be sought to be resolved. By way of non limiting illustration L beam can be being 2 inches thick and 4 inches wide.

a distance which can be a distance between sensor and the neutral axis I II of force receiving portion of L beam .

h distance . Distance can be the thickness of force receiving portion planar to a plane which includes line V VI . There can be a moment m when unknown force is applied to force receiving portion of L beam .

Generally in a non limiting L beam example unknown force in the z direction can be found by the following .

 can represent a change in sensor value. For example can represent a change in sensor measured by the difference in stress measured at sensor before and after unknown force is applied. Similarly can represent a second change stress detected by sensor . A benefit of can be to allow any of sensors to provide input for subsequently determining unknown force or unknown location . can be an output in millivolts in embodiments where sensors are Wheatstone bridges. Sensors can be zeroed or balanced out with trim resistors in the no load condition. can be the output of sensors conditioned and scaled to read in units of local stress such as PSI.

The sum of outputs of sensors can be scaled to units of local stress. For example K F A where variable A can be a cross sectional area of leg portion through a plane perpendicular to the page and comprising distance and F unknown force . K can be an appropriate constant chosen to convert an at least one millivolt output of sensor or in cases of lateral tilt to equal the local stress in appropriate units such as PSI.

Further the sum of outputs of sensors 2 F A where A is a cross section of leg portion shown by distance and F unknown force .

b 1 vertical distance between the sensors. bcan also be seen as used in a finite elements analysis as shown in as the distance between node and node and also as the distance between node and node 

Fcan be a force vector in the Y direction. By way of non limiting illustration Fcan be a transverse force in force receiving portion . Fcan result from a force being applied initially perpendicular to leg portion in most preferred embodiments where leg portion is perpendicular to force receiving portion . In a possible embodiment force receiving portion can be non level with the ground while a weight F is applied. 1 12 1 12 

By way of non limiting illustration in a possible embodiment where L beam comprises a 2 thick and 4 wide L beam Jcan be approximated as 2.6666 in. In experimentation an FEA simulation described in Tables 1.1 1.2 and 2 reflects a non limiting 2 4 possible embodiment of the present invention. It can be seen that Jvalues can be approximated with different numbers.

Fz Force vector in the direction of the substantially vertical portion the beam . It can be obtained by b h . When the force is applied parallel to perpendicular to force receiving portion in the case where this is a 90 degree L beam i.e. the L beam is level as a weight is placed this is the weight. In the event of a weight placed on the L beam in an off level condition this can be corrected as shown below. force or weight applied For the above non limiting example of a 2 4 L beam Freduces to 2.666 inrepeating.

Thus it can be understood that the sensors of the present invention in a L beam geometry using a known material can help ascertain an unknown force . Each reading for sensors and and and can be obtained by a Wheatstone bridge which when conditioned as described herein can output a figure equal to or converted to equal local stress due to forces acting upon the L beam. In most preferred embodiments sensors and can be measured in millivolts and scaled to pounds per square inch PSI using an appropriate K . There can be an output for each sensor and and and .

Unknown location is shown in with unknown forces VII VIII IX X and XI L beam sensors and adjoining region leg portion force receiving portion .

In many embodiments loading can be non perpendicular to a horizontal axis. By way of non limiting illustration the present invention can be a vehicle mounted scale acquiring a load on a hill reflected in which also correspond to non limiting examples in the FEA of Tables 1.1 1.2 and 2.

Unknown force F can be sought to be resolved. Resolving unknown force can help determine the weight at unknown location .

The outputs of sensors and can be known since readings can be obtained. Sensors and can provide the following 

The sum Scan be found by the sum of opposing sensors tension sensors and versus compression sensors and being tensile and compressive sensors in the lowest position of leg portion which are not near adjoining region . See Tables 1.1 and 1.2.

Theta can be unknown. Theta can be the angle whereby leg portion of the L beam is positioned at relative to the earth. Theta can be any angle other than a 180 degree or 0 degree angle. Theta is typically 90 degrees. In some possible embodiments off level condition can be due to the installation or mounting of the device rather than tilt associated with a vehicle to which L beam is mounted. In some possible embodiments L beam can be mounted on a vehicle that is on an off level surface such as on a hill crowned road loading dock ramp etc. L beam can be used as forks of a fork lift truck being inclined to pickup an object not limited to a load pallet or garbage can. 52 51 sin 53 54 sin 55 56 sin can also apply in some possible embodiments.

In this case the component Fcan be resolved by adding the opposing values of sensors with the difference in output Dbetween upper and lower sensors. Coleman USPA Ser. No. 20060124365 and Kutsay U.S. Pat. No. 3 724 575 teach examples of resolving by opposing values.

By way of non limiting illustration distance c can be a distance from sensor to the neutral axis of leg portion line III IV . In some possible embodiments distance can be the distance from any of sensors to line III IV. In most preferred embodiments sensors are substantially equidistant from the neutral axis III IV of leg portion .

An unexpected result observed that sensors and in the FEA were inaccurate. It was observed that sensors and were too close to adjoining region . Thus placement of sensors away from adjoining region also unexpectedly provides a benefit of greater accuracy by placement of sensors . See the stress lines of the plot were not parallel to the edges of leg portion at adjoining region which is near the positions of sensors and .

Unknown force is shown in with L beam sensors and adjoining region leg portion force receiving portion . Sensors and are parenthetically indicated for reference.

Mounting surface is shown in with vehicle sensors and L beam and display . Sensors and can be present but are obscured from this particular view.

Mounting surface can be any material to which L beam is substantially attached. Mounting surface can be attached to or attachable to vehicle . In some possible embodiments mounting surface can be formed as part of L beam itself.

Vehicle can be any transportation device whether wheeled or non wheeled. By way of non limiting illustration vehicle can be a forklift refuse truck cargo lift crane construction vehicle aircraft rail loading equipment car hybrid or other vehicle wheeled or not wheeled. The present invention need not be limited to vehicle . Vehicle need not be a forklift. There can be gap to allow bending of leg portion .

Tables 1.1 and 1.2 show derivations based on underlying data from a finite elements analysis FEA . Tables 1.1 and 1.2 are based on a possible embodiment of the present invention. The FEA model was built in Algor software version 19. Algor is a software package available from AutoDesk Inc. of Pittsburgh Pa. Tables 1.1 and 1.2 are based on a 2 D model on the Y Z plane. In the analysis thickness was programmed as an element property to simulate a three dimensional model with 4 inch width. Tables 1.1 and 1.2 together show a non limiting example of derivations and data in forty load cases each successively testing five angles of applied force. The first angle load case 1 can be perpendicular to force receiving portion . Load cases 2 5 can be understood as off angle load cases. In this non limiting example show by way of non limiting FEA off angle load cases can be other than 1 6 11 16 21 26 31 36 which can be perpendicular load cases at a 90 degree angle. Load cases can be testable in series as shown in Tables 1.1 and 1.2 for example 1 5 6 10 11 15 16 20 21 25 26 30 31 35 and 36 40. Each second third fourth and fifth load case in each five case series can be off angle from an immediately preceding perpendicular load case at approximately 26.5 and 14 degrees to either side of the immediately preceding load case In a possible embodiment unknown force or F can be later determined using the present invention. In an embodiment F or unknown force can be found by compensating for off angle conditions. In this non limiting example load cases were resolved in the FEA with a substantially L shaped beam four inches wide at eight points spaced 10 inches to 80 inches from the root along force receiving portion . Each node refers to a different sensor position having x y and z values. The values can be calculated as shown in columns 4 and 7.

Gap can be a space proximate to mounting surface . A benefit of gap is to facilitate bending of leg portion when leg portion is mounted for example to mounting surface .

Pair of L beams is shown in with sensors and and L beam . Sensors and can be present but are obscured from this particular view.

Lateral sensors and are shown in with L beam leg portion force receiving portion first lateral side and second lateral side .

Lateral sensors and are shown in with sensor sensor L beam leg portion and force receiving portion first lateral side and second lateral side .

Lateral sensors and can be sensors on lateral sides of leg portion of L beam . Other than the lateral tilt detectable by lateral sensors each of lateral sensors can be used as each of sensors to detect tilt. A benefit over conventional bending beam systems is to provide lateral sensing capabilities. In less preferred embodiments lateral sensors and can be on force receiving portion of L beam . In most preferred embodiments lateral sensors and can correct for lateral tilt conditions where the plane of L beam reference line V VI in is laterally tilted. In some possible embodiments lateral sensors and can be absent. A benefit of lateral sensors and can be to detect tilt conditions when L beam is tilted off the z axis reference line V VI . A benefit of the present invention with lateral sensors can be to facilitate correction for off level condition.

First lateral side and second lateral side can be analogous to compression side and tension side and whether first lateral side measures compression or tension depends on which way tilt occurs. Thus a difference in lateral sensors when used with sensors is that sensors can measure compression or tension to resolve tilt. Kutsay U.S. Pat. No. 3 724 575 can illustrate a calculation using two in beam sensors within a cavern formed inside a beam. However Kutsay does not teach or fairly suggest lateral sensors and does not teach or fairly suggest lateral sides and . Furthermore Kutsay does not teach or fairly suggest sensors in conjunction with lateral sensors nor does Kutsay teach or fairly suggest off angle detection or correction. Further Kutsay does not teach or fairly suggest determining unknown location of the load.

Lateral sensors and are shown in with sensor sensor L beam leg portion force receiving portion first lateral side and second lateral side .

Display is shown in with location indicator strain indicator and L beam indicators . L beams are shown in by way of non limiting illustration to distinguish physical L beams from L beam indicators shown in display .

Display can be a digital monitor liquid crystal display or human readable device. Display can be a screen capable of showing a visual image. Display can be any device which is capable of displaying a visual image and capable of refreshing or updating the visual image shown on display .

Location indicator can indicate a location of a load. Location indicator can indicate unknown location as measured by sensors and on one or more L beams . Location indicator can be shown on any axis or in multiple dimensions on more than one axis. Location indicator can have a pixel color different than the background color. Location indicator can indicate an approximate position of load based on a balanced calculation of two L beams . In a possible embodiment two L beams can be shown in display with two L beam indicators . In a preferred embodiment location indicator can be round. By way of non limiting illustration load indicator can be circular elliptical X shaped irregularly shaped or have a shape symbolizing an object being weighed. Location indicator can be a shape shown in display . Location indicator can proximately show location and magnitude in most preferred embodiments. Unknown location can be resolved by the present invention and can be shown as resolved location on display .

Strain indicator can show a character or symbol indicating the force of the load. Force can be determined by knowing the outputs of sensors. Strain indicator can display the amount of the load in units e.g. lbs. kg tons or any other unit of measure relevant to weight or force. In some possible embodiments the present invention can be configured to measure acceleration. One of ordinary skill in the pertinent art would know how to configure an accelerometer instead of a strain gauge consistent with the present invention.

L beam indicator can provide a visual depiction of L beam or a plurality of L beams preferably two L beams .

A method for finding location of load laterally can have a locator comprising an x input and a y input. A display can facilitate the locator to have a medium for output to be shown. A benefit of the present invention can be to enhance safety and or identify other issues such as undesirable items in waste or a water stream. There can be a safety threshold to be compared to the inputs from L beam sensors and or .

Bending can be produced by exertion of force on L beam . In some preferred embodiments bending can be at unknown location on force receiving portion where L beam has a compression side and a tension side .

Measuring and can be performed by sensing a first local tension side stress at a first location with sensors and or conversely with and . Measurements from and can be on tension side and measurement from and can measure compression side . The two pairs of opposing stress measurements obtained by measuring and can be used to scale output .

Scaling output can provide local units of measure of stress. In some preferred embodiments scaling output can be performed by linearly scaling millivolt output to local bending stress in PSI. A benefit of scaling output can be to provide large delta values. Further knowing the L beam geometry and L beam material properties notably Young s modulus for L beam material. By way of non limiting illustration the Young s modulus of steel can be roughly 30 million PSI and can be fairly constant throughout the elastic range. Further by way of non limiting illustration the Young s modulus of aluminum is approximately 10 million PSI. Thus the local stress in the vicinity of given sensor and or lateral sensor and can be determined via knowing the L beam material s Young s modulus and the characteristics of sensors and . In most preferred embodiments sensors are Wheatstone bridges and the character of each sensor s output is ascertainable and known.

In addition by way of non limiting illustration sensors and can be calibrated conditioned and constructed to read in the same units of local stress as appear in the calculations. Wheatstone bridges typically read in millivolts per volt and its output can be conditioned or read in local stress units. One of ordinary skill in the pertinent art would know that a Wheatstone bridge conditioner and readout can be constructed to read in local stress units such as pounds per square inch PSI . Tables 1.2 1.2 and 2 reflect non limiting examples using PSI. It is consistent with the spirit of the present invention to use local stress units other than PSI.

A method of determining unknown force can be performed on unknown force via sensors or in the cases of tilt lateral sensors and using L beam geometry. Dimensions and material of L beam will be known. Values for distances and can be known from beam geometry. In a possible embodiment sensor measurements can be obtained from sensor and sensor . U.S. Pat. No. 3 724 575 to Kutsay teaches an approach to determining force on a beam.

Sensors and each can have a value associated therewith. By way of non limiting illustration and can each represent stress a after force is applied to force receiving portion .

Geometric constant can be obtained by knowing the geometry of L beam . By way of non limiting illustration force receiving portion can be 2 thick and 4 wide. Length of force receiving portion can be substantially fixed.

 b variable in 4line of can be distinguished from b1 or b0. bcan be the width of the beam. bcan be the vertical distance between sensors for example distance b1 in . Geometric band bare shown in the numerator of the first equation in .

Determine unknown location can be performed on unknown location via sensors . The combination of at least two sensors of with lateral sensors can be used in three dimensional calculation but are generally not preferred to determine unknown location and can be used to determine unknown force consistent with this specification. In an embodiment the following can be performed to determine unknown location receiving unknown force at unknown location x oriented along force receiving portion of L beam sensing a tension stress value on the L beam to derive a first stress output t and sensing a compression stress value on the L beam to derive a second stress output c where a thickness h of leg portion of L beam is known where a distance d from the sensor to the horizontal section of L beam or the length of the vertical section is known where a quotient q is obtained from the sum of tand c and where x t q h dapproximates the unknown location oriented along the L beam. In some embodiments two L beams can be used such as shown in and the location of the load in the X direction can be calculated knowing the load on each fork separately based on the teachings of this specification thus the lateral location of the load being shown. For example see .

A non limiting illustration of L beam is shown in . L beam can also have portions which are non straight smoothed or irregular.

ZZ tensor line is shown in with L beam sensors adjoining region leg portion and force receiving portion .

When unknown force is applied to L beam stress near adjoining portion can adversely affect sensor readings near adjoining region . shows why sensors are preferably placed away from adjoining region .

Several instances of ZZ tensor line can be seen in while unknown force is exerted on L beam as here onto force receiving portion .

Load cases 1 40 are shown in Tables 1.1 and 1.2. Columns B and C showing nodes 20062 and 20082 can correspond to sensors and . Sensors and can be absent in the present invention due to observed inaccuracy near adjoining region . Load cases are provided in groups of five. Note that Tables 1.1 and 1.2 can be considered together but are shown separately given page width limitations. The present invention is not limited to this specific embodiment.

Table 2 shows the same load cases 1 40 to resolve location using the present invention within relative degrees of accuracy.

Conveyor is shown in with plurality of L beams camera system voltage convertor load platform sensors and L beam leg portion force receiving portion unknown location and unknown force .

Conveyor can be any convertor system whether industrial or retail factory warehouse loading dock or retail store or any other environment in which a conveyor can be used.

Camera system can be any camera capable of storing or sending an image data. An image of unknown object on L beam or on conveyor can be photographed or recorded. Camera system can capture one or more images of one or more objects upon conveyor . Camera system can have a memory internal to the camera or routed to be stored on a hard drive internet storage or cloud. Data or images from camera system can be combined with weight and or location of unknown object on L beam on a hard drive. Camera system can be any existing camera or imaging device. A benefit of the present invention can be to track any product or object on conveyor which can provide a cross reference to preexisting known information to provide validation and association with any entity and or transaction.

Converter can be any electric current convertor such as a voltage converter hardware or software. In an embodiment converter can comprise a software preferably LabView a wire a CPU a memory a program comprising a multiplier from volts to any other metric such as pounds per square inch psi and a display. Convertor can be a voltage conversion device. In a preferred embodiment convertor can comprise software preferably LabView available from National Instruments of Austin Tex. Convertor can further comprise a wire a CPU a memory a program comprising a multiplier from volts to any other metric such as pounds per square inch psi and a display.

Load can be any physical object exerting unknown force as a result of gravity. Load can be a known or unknown load such as an unknown object upon force receiving portion directly or indirectly thereto. By way of non limiting illustration load can be a known product in the stream of commerce. By way of non limiting illustration load can be an object passing through a security checkpoint. It can be seen that many variations and applications would benefit from the present invention.

Platform can be one or more surfaces such as ceramic rubber plastic metal or any other material capable of forming a surface. In an embodiment platform can be a surface upon which objects can be placed while moving along conveyor . By way of non limiting illustration platform can be formed with force receiving portion rather than being attached to it. Platform being attached to force receiving portion such that the result is detection of weight and or location. In a preferred embodiment platform is formed with force receiving portion such that bending is more easily detected. In an embodiment where platform is formed with force receiving portion platform can be any surface capable of having an object with unknown force placed thereupon. Platform can be on part of hinged to bolted to removably attachable or attached to L beam . In an embodiment platform can be integrated with force receiving portion . In an embodiment a plurality of platforms can form a conveyor belt. Leg portion can be separate or fixed to a single movable belt.

Conveyor is shown in with plurality of L beams camera system voltage convertor load platform sensors and L beam leg portion force receiving portion unknown location and unknown force .

Receive sensor input can be performed by any conductive material capable of providing respective voltages from sensors and or sensors or any combination thereof. In an embodiment receive sensor input can comprise a voltage multiplier software by way of non limiting illustration using LabView from National Instruments of Austin Tex.

The present invention can provide a weight and image tracking system. In an embodiment the weight and image tracking system can have conveyor a first L beam having a force receiving portion and a leg portion at least two overlapping surfaces of conveyor resting upon or near the force receiving portion and one or more sensors attached to the leg portion . Similarly there can be a second L beam with second force receiving portion and second leg portion . Further there can be an imaging device and a memory which is capable of storing an image of an unknown object upon force receiving portion or a platform upon it such as part of conveyor belt. There can be a series of L beams each with pluralities of sensors on each L beam .

A benefit of the present invention can be to uniquely identify multiple items by location and weight once placed onto a structure or vehicle constructed with or from such an L beam.

As items are placed onto a table or pallet suspended by plurality of L beams a processor could record their being placed and observe their being removed by co operation with a camera or other camera system. The pallets or tables could be configured into a conveyor like device such as currently used to dispense luggage or a series of carts linked into a train. Such a device would be particularly useful in ensuring luggage is being claimed by the correct persons or to track a suspected wrongdoer person of interest or potential smuggler of a linked package between couriers and then visually identifying the persons and or their prior whereabouts including monitoring actions leading up to or after any transaction which can be traced to the weight tracking capabilities of the present invention. Depending on the achievable precision of a given implementation of the present invention it can be seen seen that it could be possible to uniquely identify many items of passenger luggage no two having exactly the same weight and no two having the same location. Note also that the non limiting showing L beam indicates its inverted position compared to prior non limiting examples. It will work essentially the same other than what were compressive strains in the predominantly vertical portion of the L beam are now tensile strains and vice versa. L beam can be relatively narrow and with overlap allowing a plurality of L beams to be retrofitted to common luggage conveyor systems which have curves. The same technique could be applied to inventory control and tracking in a warehouse or store where the shelving would be constructed via a plurality of L beams which communicate to a processor which may also be connected to a camera system.

In an embodiment store or warehouse can have L beam with leg portion and sensors connected to output to a CPU.

As a widget is loaded data can be generated. For example fifteen widgets can be found at a given location.

In a method of the present invention L beam can access a load having unknown force . Access can involve obtaining the load onto any structure upon which L beam receives force on the force receiving portion .

In many vehicle applications L beam can be at almost any angle at a given time given varying road conditions.

In refuse applications where L beam is attached to a refuse vehicle sometimes trash containers can be accessed from an off angle condition.

Force receiving portion can overlap with other force receiving portions . By way of non limiting illustration platform formed with force receiving portion can have an overlapping surfaces. In an embodiment load can provide unknown force on a plurality of L beams each having force receiving portions and preferably leg portion with sensors . Weights and locations can be used in instances where two or more L beams receive unknown force .

In a preferred embodiment platform can be formed with force receiving portion . Platform need not be limited to embodiments placed on or attached to force receiving portion .

Camera is shown in with product shelf target monitored area smart store target consumer preferences or purchasing suggestions tracker server and L beam .

Shelf can be a rack board or any surface upon which one or more products can be placed. A conventional shelf is generally lies planar to the ground. Shelf can incorporate any scale including by way of non limiting illustration one or more cantilever beams U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 010 161 to Coleman filed Dec. 13 2004 and allowed on Jan. 4 2013 or one or more L beams can support shelf inverted or not inverted. In an embodiment shelf can have a pair of inverted L beams . In an embodiment L beam can have hooks on leg portion . In an embodiment L beam can be stackable hollowed or flanged. Shelf can have L beam integrated into its structure such that sensors can be on two integrated L beams . In some embodiments one or more L beams can comprise shelf itself.

Monitored area can be an image of a physical area capable of being stored in a tangible medium on server and or observable via camera . Monitored area can include by way of non limiting illustration region room store warehouse facility shelf shelf L beam container or storage area or any portion thereof or any multiple or combination thereof.

Smart store can be a physical location having an L beam and shelf . In some embodiments smart store can also have camera . A benefit of the present invention in embodiments with smart store can be to capture and respond to changes in force applied to L beam observed through sensors .

Target can be any physical object which can be the subject of tracking via its image generally as seen through a camera such as camera . Target can be a stationary product on shelf . Target can be modified to include a person who picks up product . Target can include the image of a person and product together as multiple targets jointly associated or as multiple targets . A possible implementation of target can be to programmatically tag at an initiated time either automated when the product is picked from shelf and by monitoring one or more pixels or a color and initial area of pixels as viewed through camera and comparing from a first frame to a second frame the series of images and how such target has moved. Thus a benefit of the present invention can be to track a person who has picked up a given product as they move from one part of the store or location to another via camera . Programmatic instructions to track target can be executed on one or more servers . Configuration of target can be performed when initially configuring the smart store .

Consumer preferences can be a record datastore or collection of information or data pertaining to historical information about one or more consumers a group of consumers or categories delineated by product pick categories associated with a product pick likely demographic information associated with a product pick time geography or demographic information.

Purchasing suggestions can include any offer proposed item for purchase product promotion or point of sale in the retail location.

Tracker can be provided on server . Tracker can include image processing software used with visual image processing including any still images series of still images vector based moving graphics video regardless of format. By way of non limiting illustration tracking system can

Server can have a computer processor a memory coupled thereto and an operating system. Server can be software based or hardware based. In hardware based server embodiments of the present invention server can include by way of non limiting illustration any hardware computing device desktop rackmounted or mobile. Camera can communicate to server over HTTPS or unsecured protocols over any wireless or wired communications medium. There can be one or more servers or server can be hosted in a cloud. Preferably server can be a locally hosted computer to reduce network lag and thus provide more reliable and more timely information. However to balance service and connectivity server can be distributed with multiple components hosted in different physical locations or on different physical machines. Thus a notification process can be on a different physical machine from an image processor to balance load. Further a server can have increased RAM and or graphics acceleration hardware to assist in processing and or displaying ongoing monitoring in a security monitoring chamber or provided via one or more on screen monitor panels for viewing. A user interface can be provided to permit zoom time manipulation to speed up slow down rewind fast forward play pause view live feed etc. Tagging pixels via an administrative user interface can include by way of non limiting illustration selecting a pixel or group of pixels corresponding to one or more products as viewed through camera . Server can have one or more datastores which can include in memory storage for ongoing processing a database including but not limited to MySQL Oracle Microsoft SQL server or a data warehouse and business intelligence software flat file storage space local or residing in the cloud.

A weight sensing storage system capable of tracking removed items can comprise an at least one product image captured via an at least one camera a plurality of sensors on an L beam sensing a reduction in weight from the L beam the sensing determined by a first signal from the plurality of sensors indicating a first state prior to change of the at least one product image and a second signal indicating a lower strain on the L beam than the first signal. Further the weight sensing storage system can also generate a wireless message including a product identifier selected from one of the following product SKU product ID product name product description product location a product order ID a product inventory ID or any plurality or combination thereof and can generate a record with the product image taken via a camera. In addition the weight sensing storage system can generate records pertaining to a change in weight for example programmatically recording a product identifier corresponding to the product which was removed from a shelf with a first or initial timestamp corresponding to when the product was removed from the shelf. By way of non limiting illustration a digital dashboard can provide various metrics including but not limited to pick vs. purchase rates for certain in demand products returns vs. picks vs. purchases weight discrepancy frequency reports shelf utilization reports shelf pick rates vs. multiple product pick rates per shelf and shelf vs. shelf pick rates across multiple stores. All such metrics or reports can be based in whole or in part on information obtained from L beam . After sensing a reduction in weight from the L beam which can be obtained via the plurality of sensors a recording can be initiated to record of an image of the product at the time of removal from the shelf which can be monitored or recorded via the camera. After sensing a reduction in weight from L beam the present invention can initiate a video recording of an image of the product at the time of removal from the shelf via camera . The video recording can be initiated at the time of weight change of monitored area . Furthermore the weight sensing storage system can send a wireless message or communication including but not limited to SMS MMS text message iMessage or any other communication. Such wireless communication can include by way of non limiting illustration a product image wherein the message indicates and an indication of a loss actual or prospective. The loss can be indicated by price or simply an indication of concern that the associated product will be lost or has been lost or is simply the subject of interest for potential investigation recovery or loss prevention. Also the present invention can measure the difference in weight between the removed product and a known product weight. Additionally the present invention can send a notification upon expiration of an expected time to checkout. The notification can have by way of non limiting illustration a product identifier an at least one selected from an image a video or a text message.

In an embodiment there can be a method to reduce risk of loss prevention which can include storing product on a shelf where product can have a known weight K removing a weighted object from a store rack where the rack has at least one L beam to facilitate detecting the weight of product . There can be multiple products on the shelf each having approximate weight corresponding closely to known weight K and having a sum of weights for multiple products on shelf which can later be used to determine how many products were removed by subtracting the difference before and after removal of the products . If one product is removed the weight can be subtracted from the shelf total.

In an embodiment a product can be removed from the store rack or shelf and thus the smart store can track when product taken off shelf . In a possible embodiment there can be a programmatic instruction to expect the removed product to go through at the cash register if not the removed product can be suspected as stolen lost or misplaced. Subsequently a report can be generated by server to a store manager for review and dissemination to the appropriate party ranging from a private investigation entity law enforcement distributor sales agent responsible for the given product .

If product is initially designated as misplaced but not recovered within a specific period of time for example within four hours or after four hours into the following shift 12 hours if eight hour shifts for example then the product can be reported as lost and suspected as stolen.

In an embodiment involving security tracking camera can track a product being picked up or removed from its storage location i.e. shelf .

In an embodiment involving physical items including retail stores if a person does not take the product they previously removed through the cash register a notification can be sent. Error cases can be established for a given retailer warehouse or for a specific camera or any plurality or combination thereof. By way of non limiting illustration there can be a change in weight on L beam or shelf but a lack of correspondence with an expected removal weight approximately equal to the known weight of the product. This can be caused by wrong product on the shelf being removed having a different weight which can be adjusted for within the system if known adjacent or nearby products are found. A message can be generated to provide notice of an indeterminate weight condition for other cases where there is a weight discrepancy not easily resolved such as a person leaning on a shelf or product falling from one portion of a shelf to another. Further a shelf turned on its side can serve as an in between shelf border to limit mixing of products thereby increasing reliability of the present invention.

If the removed product is deemed a loss an order can be prepared to replace the removed product. If too much removed product is lost an alert can be generated and or a report produced and sent to a third party.

Camera can assist in acquiring target following target and a notification can be sent when the removed item or a product with matching product ID is paid for at the register or checkout per a transactional data sent from the checkout terminal i.e. when scanned or otherwise indicated as checked out .

Following a target image can be an ongoing process. Camera can monitor a group of items at a location for example on a shelf in a box or on a shelf in a box or on a palette.

Camera can provide a visual output to be analyzed for differences from a first image and a second image at a later point in time preferably close in time such as within a few seconds. Camera can then be instructed by the system to adjust its view of the removed product to follow the removed product. An image of a person who is associated with the removed product can be recorded via camera placed in a datastore.

By way of non limiting illustration camera can acquire and watch one or more targets in a given monitored area . Subsequently when product is removed from shelf the tracker can determine that one or more products is or are off the shelf given that a weight change occurs on L beam which can be sensed via sensors at two times a first time and a second time and the respective signals corresponding to the weight on one or more L beams . If a coupon item is known then multiple products can be determined to be lifted from shelf . Further upsell or cross sell suggestions can be made visually via in store display or via audio or via automated wireless communication to an individual s mobile device to a shopper advising of further deals such as multi item discounts for bulk purchases or multi product purchases based on the collected data reflecting the picking off the shelf a plurality of products which can be ascertained by sensors . Further timer to check the object whether it shows up on another shelf or the checkout

In an embodiment camera can receive an image of a new person of interest when the person enters into a designated monitored area such as through the entrance of a physical location or passing from an adjacent area into monitored area .

Subsequently a person can pick up a product while the system is watching via camera . The system expects the person to pay for the product unless it is subsequently relinquished either by returning it to the original shelf leaving it on another shelf or on the floor giving it to another person such as an employee or manager. Cases of high risk can be assisted in being identified and thus a benefit of the present invention can be to immediately provide information to respond to a threat or occurring crime or to learn about potential repeat attempts of theft. Such theft can also be monitored across multiple locations or for certain products.

In an embodiment there can be a tracker which can record one or more instances when a product taken off shelf . Tracker can then take further action or automatically provide information to a recipient. By way of non limiting illustration once a product is removed the tracker can expect it to go through at cash register if not something is suspected as stolen.

Further camera can monitor a product stored on the shelf . Subsequently product can be picked up and monitored via camera . Software to acquire and target an object are known in the related art. Based on the teachings of the present invention as disclosed and consistent with this specification one having an ordinary level of skill in the pertinent art would know how to incorporate camera and targeting software to acquire and target a product image which can be initially stationary and subsequently removed from shelf . Target can include any physical object ranging from products to persons.

If the product is not processed at the checkout register then further action can be taken by the present invention. By way of non limiting illustration further action can be to automate a process or to automate and facilitate a human response to given error cases by providing timely and sufficiently detailed information based on data recorded by the present invention. By way of non limiting illustration error cases can include by way of non limiting illustration missing from the shelf for longer than the expected period returned to shelf missing but not urgent missing and urgent identify person of interest notify shift manager notify next shift manager inquire previous shift manager or employees confirm with restocking personnel locate suspect with image of suspect and time removed from shelf begin or continue monitoring product or person s of interest or suspect. Further such messages can be provided in localized languages appropriate for specific persons. In an embodiment language switches can be used for dual language or multi lingual notification of automated messages. Moreover an error tolerance range e.g. 1 to 5 for weight discrepancies can be helpful to reduce or eliminate instances of over alerting or false positives. This can change from product to product depending on manufacturer consistency. Thus a benefit of the present invention can be to catch a higher rate of non conforming products given irregular weight discrepancies beyond a tolerance range e.g. before such product is released to consumers or after shelving and re shelving of a given product .

By way of non limiting illustration product can be ordered to be replaced at a certain quantity Q if the product was purchased at checkout and the current quantity M is below acceptable safety threshold P of the given product . Ordering replacement product can occur upon simultaneously satisfying a checkout order for a removed product when the quantity on hand for the given product ID dips below the level of pre established re ordering quantity Q. The pre established re ordering quantity can have a default quantity captured simply as an integer or numeric value. There can also be a re order amount such as a prior amount or a contractual amount to be restocked or re ordered. The instruction can then be if current quantity on hand M equals safety threshold amount P then re order Q amount of product. If re stocking can occur without producing a re order then no order will be produced. Instead the nearest warehouse with the product on hand will be instructed via a notification to either supply the quantity or to directly restock the shelf for on site warehouses or storage room where additional product is kept in the back of the store for example .

In another embodiment an automated restocking robot can be used to pull product off one shelf thus being detected by L beam and its respective sensors and placed on another shelf thus being weighted down further and then detected by another L beam . Such shelf can be in any location such as a palette warehouse shelf or another retail shelf. A benefit of the present invention can be to streamline re stocking procedures to cut down on unavailable products particularly such products which may be in demand by consumers. Another benefit of the present invention can be to reduce costs associated with restocking or reordering products while detecting with greater precision the quantities deducted and then increased during the restocking process.

Acquiring target can be performed by programmatically configuring camera to capture images when L beam specifically the sensors or thereto are affected by a change. That change can reflect when a customer picks a product which therefore has an approximate weight which can be compared to a known weight to determine a quantity of the picked product . Further data capture from sensors or can also be performed for example using third party software or proprietary signal interpreter and logging for example via LabView software. The acquired sensor data pertaining to product weight on the L beam or overall shelf can then be recorded programmatically. By way of non limiting illustration recording can be performed by noting the time product s shelf location meaning where the shelf is located or any designation pertaining to the location and including print weight and or compareWeight new weight prior weight or checkWeight time2 newWeight time1 priorWeight to a file and or inserted or updated in a SQL database or directly incorporated into a subsequent notification. The image of the acquired target can also be recorded and compared at two different times before and after the item is removed.

Following target can be performed by using tracker which can receive one or more inputs associated with product identify target consumer preferences or purchasing suggestions . In a possible embodiment an in store target can be followed outside of the retail location into the parking area by passing on such information to external recipients to apprehend a suspect for shoplifting or to detain such suspect for a reasonable but short time to determine whether such product was in fact stolen or not. If such product is deemed stolen the relevant portions of video footage from camera can be cut automatically into an mp4 file with or without sound. The video footage can be recorded with plain view infra red or alternative views of the removed product and the suspect who has failed to pay for the removed product after exiting the store or passing through the checkout area without providing payment or at least attempting to complete a transaction. White balance can be established to configure according to changing lighting conditions periodically. In cases where a customer cannot afford to make a payment at checkout the products noted as removed can be temporarily placed on hold pending restocking from the checkout area back to the shelf or to a separate location and the alert for the removed product can be diffused or disengaged such that no further action is deemed urgent other than a responsive restocking resulting from a message from the system to a designated employee or the same alert procedures can be initiated.

Notifying can be performed upon any data interaction or determination of certain criteria. By way of non limiting illustration when the removed product is paid for a message can be generated automatically to send any relevant information to a recipient including any product related information about the product which has been lifted off the shelf or L beam. In some embodiments a monitoring and notification process can include a periodic structured query language SQL query executed on a database relational or non relational. Payment or checkout can be the point at which a triggering message to the listener can conclude positive checkout. Integration with a checkout system can include monitoring or having a listener or a data level change to conclude checkout. The known product ID can be stored in the database and compared to the product ID of the picked product to attempt to achieve a match. Further there can be an ongoing service actively running on a Windows operating system executed by a third party executable with a parameter passed through it and then receiving its output in memory or written to a flat file in text with any character format for example in ASCII or UTF 8 for U.S. English localized implementations. The text file can be monitored for example repeatedly or periodically for changes ranging from every 0.001 to 60 seconds or using larger intervals ranging into hours or days. In a possible embodiment using a push approach when the product is paid for at checkout then the given product with or without RFID can be designated as purchased and no security check need be continued. If the product is paid for but a product is returned to the shelf the system can have a non urgent message or notification to the manager indicating that there is extra product on shelf for the given product. One of ordinary skill in the pertinent art would know how to implement the notification system based on the present disclosure consistent with the present invention.

By way of non limiting illustration there can be a SQL query similar to the following SELECT PRODUCT NAME FROM SHELF WHERE CURRENT WEIGHT

Following a target image can include acquiring the target noting the product which was removed and then creating a waiting process which can count down a duration in which a default length of time passes in which to conduct a checkout for the product unless the product is returned to the shelf . In a possible embodiment with no images of a person removing the product and only weight sensing L beam it is possible to still initiate procedures for monitoring and tracking product as it leaves the store. It is also possible to designate a product as misplaced. By way of non limiting illustration if product is detected on another shelf then the product can be deemed misplaced instead of stolen. It is also possible that a given product may be partially consumed i.e. eaten used or otherwise consumed before it is returned to the shelf and potentially may have an improper weight upon its return to the shelf. In an embodiment product can have a weight that is within 5 of its original weight. It is also possible to factor indoor temperature and expected changes in weight if any potentially due to minor fluctuations from evaporation spoilage spillage or condensation.

In a possible embodiment a message can be electronically or wirelessly communicated to a given entity or person that target has been acquired and copy an image of that target to be sent to their device for fair purposes of security monitoring. Each removal of each product can be tracked within the store and automatically recorded with an image of the person who is removing the item or if automated then each removal of each item by the automated arm or lift when such removed is detected via camera . Messages can range from indications of low stock re order suggestions suspected theft misplaced product etc. In an embodiment message can indicate the product identifier. Product identifiers can be any of product SKU or ID product name short or long description product image camera product images associated with the product store location manufacturer or brand order number inventory information such as quantities in store and or in warehouse re order information recall information shelf location of the product price expiration date if applicable or any combination thereof. Further the time it was removed from the shelf as well as the current time of the notification being generated can be provided in a subsequent message report notification or alert.

A benefit of the present invention can be to provide improved security for products or items and information systems to track and resolve checkout for products picked off the shelf.

A benefit of the present invention can be to provide automated assistance in creating pertinent and timely messages to appropriate persons to take corrective action.

A benefit of the present invention can be to maintain a historical record pertaining to product patterns in retail or supply chains or to optimize operations research by way of non limiting illustration including reordering of products recall of products pick patterns by consumers and failed purchase decisions times when products were approximately taken off the shelf comparisons to store entry time entry in the monitored area to time to pick off the shelf etc.

A benefit of the present invention can be to provide an analytic quantitative and qualitative data collection pertaining to consumers and respective interest areas product picks failed checkouts and purchase history of product from the time product is picked from shelf and subsequently purchased thus providing a basis for consumer behavior analysis on a wider and more detailed scale with automated time logging to determine additional metrics for potential quality improvement.

In an embodiment camera can watch target . Thus a benefit of the present invention can be to detect when an object is off the shelf and or its current location and or to record an image of the person who removed the given product off the shelf while noting the time and the lapse of expected time after which a report or notification can be provided to an appropriate person. In an embodiment a timer can be used to check whether a prior picked up object later shows up on another shelf or the checkout. Target can be any of the following the moved product the person who moved the product or was in close proximity to the product or any combination thereof.

Smart store can detect a change to a known image of a monitored area such as a portion of public or private property or structure. In a possible embodiment person of interest s image via camera can be monitored as a target can enter the monitored area . Smart store with camera can detect when a person picks up an object such as a component or a product off a shelf having L beam . Camera can photograph and or record a video with or without sound. A benefit of the present invention can be to anticipate or expect that a payment for the product will occur and if not then the product may be investigated for theft and restocking procedures such as alerts notification and or reports or orders may be initiated processed and sent to external third parties or internal decision makers.

By way of non limiting illustration there can be a real time operational database and interfaces to retrieve information such as location and or weight. Using third party software or custom program instructions application program interfaces can implement a means to getLocation and getWeight in the L beam system apparatus or method. Such get programmatic instructions can be automatically fed to a display without initiating a separate command in the user interface. Therefore a listener can be instantiated to obtain the current location information from the sensors and or each having its own corresponding inputs.

In a preferred embodiment a timestamp can also be included while four simultaneous inputs are processed. In another embodiment the timestamp can be produced and returned when the four inputs are obtained. In yet another embodiment pairs of input information are simply obtained for basic comparison left right lateral differences can be derived from the sum of the proximal and distal sensors a first L beam and the other sum based on the proximal and distal sensors on a second L beam where the first and second L beams comprise a pair of L beams . To summarize an API of a possible embodiment by way of non limiting illustration 

In summary the present invention provides a force sensing method comprising bending a L beam acted on at an initially unknown location on a force receiving portion of the L beam the L beam having a known geometry a known material and a leg portion where the leg portion comprising a tension side and a compression side measuring tension side strain via a first sensor and a second sensor measuring compression side strain via a third sensor and a fourth sensor determining local stress based on the known geometry and the known material and reading an output. The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention not be limited by this detailed description but by the claims and the equivalents to the claims appended hereto.

