---

title: Providing interactive alert information
abstract: In some implementations, a computer-implemented method of displaying alert information with a mobile communication device includes displaying device status indicators to a user of a mobile device in a status area; receiving information from an application to display an alert in the status area; displaying in the status area a first level of information for the alert and a user-selectable control; and displaying, in response to a selection of the user-selectable control, a second level of information for the alert that provides greater detail than the first level of information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09525769&OS=09525769&RS=09525769
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09525769
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130806
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 589 882 filed on Aug. 20 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 186 143 filed Jul. 19 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 938 134 filed Nov. 9 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 996 045. The disclosure of the prior applications is considered part of and are incorporated by reference in the disclosure of this application.

This document relates generally to providing interactive alert information and more particularly to providing interactive alert information with a mobile computing or communication device.

A mobile computing or communication device e.g. a smartphone cell phone personal digital assistant PDA etc. may display status indicators associated with various system resources. For example a device may display a battery shaped power meter that graphically depicts how much power remains in a battery included in the device as power is consumed by the device the power meter may change shape or character e.g. the power meter may appear less shaded or filled in as power is consumed . As another example the device may display an antenna shaped graphic having a number of bars that depict a relative strength of a signal that the device is capable of receiving from a corresponding wireless communication network a stronger signal may be associated with more bars in the antenna graphic and a weaker signal may be associated with fewer bars in the antenna graphic. As another example the device may display various icons to depict a mode that the device is in. In particular a telephone shaped icon with wavy lines on either side may indicate a courtesy mode an automobile shaped icon may indicate a driving mode e.g. one in which the device is configured to receive voice commands from a user .

This document describes methods and systems for providing interactive alert information e.g. interactive indicators or icons in a device such as a mobile computing or communication device that can provide a user of the device with progressively more information about an event e.g. the receipt of an email in response to the user s interaction with the alert information. In particular for example multiple levels of detail corresponding to alert information can be provided. The multiple levels of detail can include a first level of information which can be displayed with an initial interactive alert indicator a second level of information can be displayed when a user of the device selects the initial interactive alert indicator a third level of information can be displayed when the user selects the interactive alert indicator a second time or selects a display of the second level of information . In some implementations the device provides a mechanism for displaying interactive alert information for any application running on the device.

In some implementations a computer implemented method for displaying alert information includes in a mobile smartphone having a touch sensitive display screen displaying device status indicators to a user of the smartphone in a status area receiving information from an application to display an alert in the status area displaying in the status area a first level of information for the alert and a user selectable control displaying in response to user selection input selecting the user selectable control a second level of information for the alert that provides greater detail than the first level of information and in response to additional user selection input selecting the second level of information activating an application associated with the received information wherein the application is focused on a third level of information for the alert that provides greater detail than the first level or second level of information. The user selection input and the additional user selection input can be received through user contact with the touch sensitive screen.

In some implementations a computer implemented method for displaying alert information with a mobile communication device includes displaying device status indicators to a user of a mobile device in a status area receiving information from an application to display an alert in the status area displaying in the status area a first level of information for the alert and a user selectable control and displaying in response to a selection of the user selectable control a second level of information for the alert that provides greater detail than the first level of information. The second level of information can be displayed in a pop up box near the user selectable control.

The computer implemented method can further include superimposing the first level of information over the device status indicators. Superimposing the first level of information over the device status indicators can include scrolling the first level of information through the status area over the device status indicators. The first level of information can include preview content related to the second level of information. The computer implemented method can further include removing the preview content after a user review period.

The computer implemented method can further include increasing a size of the user selectable control while the user selectable control is being selected and permitting selection of another user selectable control by movement of a selector. Increasing the size of the user selectable control can include increasing the size of the user selectable control one or more times to a predetermined maximum size while the user selectable control remains selected.

The computer implemented method can further include activating an application associated with the received information wherein the application is focused on a third level of information for the alert that provides greater detail than the first level or second level of information. Activating the application can include activating the application in response to a selection of the second level of information.

In some implementations the first level of information includes a short message service SMS snippet the second level of information includes an SMS message and the application includes an SMS message manager. In some implementations the first level of information includes an electronic mail snippet the second level of information includes an electronic mail message portion that is larger than the snippet and the application includes an electronic mail application.

In some implementations a computer implemented mobile device alert management system includes an interface configured to receive status alert information from applications on a mobile device an alert management module configured to receive the status alert information from the interface and provide multiple levels of detail of the status alert information and a display module configured to receive the multiple levels of detail of the status alert information and to display to a user of the mobile device at least a first level of detail of the status alert information in a device display status area of a mobile device.

The alert management module can be configured to initially present the first level of detail of the alert information and to present a second level of detail when selection input is received the selection input indicating that the first level of detail has been selected. The interface can be configured to activate an application associated with the status alert information when additional selection input has been received the additional selection input indicating that the second level of detail has been selected.

The computer implemented mobile device alert management can further include a touch sensitive input device configured to receive the selection input. The interface can be configured to prevent the display module from being directly accessed by the applications. The interface can be configured to receive the status alert information from an application and initiate a protected function call that incorporates at least a portion of the received status alert information wherein the protected function call is not directly accessible to the applications.

The computer implemented mobile device alert management system can further comprising a static indicator module configured to display in the status area status information pertaining to the overall operation of the mobile device wherein the status information includes at least one of an indication of remaining on board power in the mobile device or an indication of signal strength of a wireless channel over which the mobile device sends and receives information. The display module can be configured to display the alert information in the status area of the mobile device in a manner that is more prominent than the status information during a user review period.

In some implementations a computer implemented mobile device alert management system includes an interface configured to receive status alert information from applications on a mobile device an alert management means for receiving the status alert information from the interface and providing multiple levels of detail of the status alert information and a display module configured to receive the multiple levels of detail of the status alert information and to display to a user of the mobile device at least a first level of detail of the status alert information in a device display status area of the mobile device.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below.

This document describes methods and systems for providing interactive alert information e.g. interactive indicators or icons in a device such as a mobile computing or communication device that can provide a user of the device with progressively more information about an event e.g. the receipt of an email in response to the user s interaction with the alert information. In particular for example multiple levels of detail corresponding to alert information can be provided. The multiple levels of detail can include a first level of information which can be displayed with an initial interactive alert indicator a second level of information can be displayed when a user of the device selects the initial interactive alert indicator a third level of information can be displayed when the user selects the interactive alert indicator a second time or selects a display of the second level of information . In some implementations the device provides a mechanism for displaying interactive alert information for any application running on the device.

Turning to an example mobile device that can display interactive indicators is shown. The mobile device is shown as a slider style smartphone but the mobile device can be any mobile communication or computing device such as a cell phone personal digital assistant PDA media player navigational device etc. Typically such devices provide various computing resources that enable a user to interact with the device through input output facilities and in particular to run applications that enable the user to process data or media in some manner. Some such devices also provide communication facilities such as voice data and messaging services. Additional example details of mobile devices are provided below for example with reference to . The exact type of mobile device is not critical to this description and the reader will appreciate that the principles described herein can be applied to other devices that are not traditionally characterized as mobile devices. For example the principles described herein can be advantageously applied to other devices having touch sensitive displays such as for example dash mounted vehicle navigation systems and display equipped consumer appliances e.g. washers dryers dishwashers microwaves refrigerators wine cabinets coffee makers etc. .

As depicted in one implementation in the mobile device also referred to as the smartphone includes a display screen for displaying graphical information to the user and various buttons and keys to receive input from the user. In some implementations additional keys are available under the display screen and can be accessed by sliding the screen up and away from a bottom portion .

In some implementations the display screen is a touch screen that is configured to receive tactile input from the user. For example when the mobile device detects that an object e.g. a user s finger or a stylus is in contact with the display screen the mobile device can cause a keyboard image e.g. a soft keyboard to be displayed. The user can contact specific portions of the display screen above the keyboard image to provide corresponding input to the mobile device . Various other details of mobile devices such as the mobile device are described below with reference to .

As shown in one implementation the display screen includes two areas an application area that consumes much of the screen real estate and a status bar . The mobile device can employ the application area to display menus of applications that are available to users of the mobile device or information associated with one or more applications that may be currently running on the mobile device . For example for purposes of illustration a messaging application is depicted in the application area .

In some implementations the status bar is a standard area where various system status information can be displayed. As an example of typical system status information a signal strength indicator that graphically includes four bars is shown which may correspond to a detected strength of a wireless communication signal that is currently available to the mobile device . As the strength of the signal changes the number or character of the bars may change. For example detection by the mobile device of a small decrease in signal strength may cause the device to display only the three smallest bars or to display outlines of all four bars but only fill in the smallest three bars. A DATA indicator is shown below the four bars and may indicate a type of wireless signal that is available or a current mode of the device. In other modes other indicators may be displayed e.g. VOICE ANALOG DIGITAL CDMA GSM etc. . As another example of a type of system status information a battery icon is depicted. A fraction of the battery icon that is filled in may correspond to a fraction or percentage of power remaining in a battery that is included in the mobile device . The lightning bolt icon that is displayed over the battery icon may indicate that the power source is currently charging e.g. that the mobile device may be connected to a charging device such as an alternating current AC power adapter . As another example of a type of system status information an analog clock icon is displayed that may apprise the user of the current time.

Each of the above described example indicators may be a static indicator. For example although the indicator may change based on environmental parameters e.g. the character of the bars may change based on a detected signal strength the battery icon may change based on a current level of power in a power source in the device and the clock icon may change with the time the static indicators may not change in character or appearance or provide additional information in response any user s attempts to interact with the static indicators. Moreover many example static indicators may be associated with system functions or parameters of the mobile device rather than with specific applications that run on the mobile device . Other indicators that are associated with specific applications may be displayed not shown but may include for example an envelope icon to indicate that a messaging application has received a new message but such indicators may likewise be static in the sense of not supporting direct user interaction e.g. the character or appearance of these indicators may not change in response to a user s attempts to interact with them .

The mobile device may also provide interactive indicators e.g. alerts . In contrast to the static indicators described above interactive indicators can support user interaction. That is an interactive indicator can be configured to progressively display more information in response to received user input associated with the interactive indicator. In particular for example an interactive indicator may initially provide a first level of information or detail about an application or parameter of the mobile device . In response to initial first user input associated with the interactive indicator the interactive indicator may provide a second level of information or detail e.g. more information or detail than is provided in the first level about the application or parameter. In some implementations subsequent user input associated with the interactive indicator can cause the interactive indicator to provide a third level of information or detail associated with the application or parameter. Providing additional levels of detail can in some implementations include activating an application or initiating a network communication corresponding to the interactive indicator. Examples of interactive indicators are provided in and discussed with reference to .

In some implementations while the interactive indicator scrolls across the status bar the prominence of other status information may be reduced. For example as shown in one implementation in screenshots A C the intensity of the static indicators and is reduced and the interactive indicator e.g. the icon and the corresponding preview are superimposed over the static indicators. Once the preview content associated with the interactive indicator is removed the intensity of the static indicators may be restored as depicted in screenshot D. Additional levels of detail or information may be displayed upon receipt of user input associated with the interactive indicator as will be described in greater detail with reference to .

In some implementations the user review period is preset for a period of time that may allow a user to read the preview content e.g. 5 10 or 30 seconds or some other period . In some implementations the user review period is user configurable. In some implementations the user review period may be influenced by how many other interactive alerts are queued for display. For example if only a single interactive indicator is to be displayed preview content associated with the single interactive indicator may be displayed for 30 seconds whereas if five interactive indicators are to be displayed preview content for each of the five interactive indicators may only be displayed for five or 10 seconds each.

In the above description the interactive indicators are depicted and described as being scrolled across the screen. However in other implementations interactive indicators may be displayed differently. For example an interactive indicator may immediately appear without scrolling e.g. in the left corner of the status bar but the interactive indicator may flash for an initial user review period e.g. while corresponding preview content is displayed in either a flashing or fixed format . As another example the interactive indicator may initially appear in one color or shade but change color or shade during or after a user review period. As another example the interactive indicator may simply appear with or without preview content but without being displayed in a manner designed to capture the user s attention.

In some implementations the interactive indicators are displayed immediately upon being activated. For example in the context of the SMS example depicted in or the email example depicted in the corresponding interactive indicator may appear as soon as the corresponding SMS or email message is received. In some implementations the interactive indicators are displayed based on other input. For example the mobile device may include a component that detects when the mobile device is in a particular position such as a display screen up position with the device at an angle that indicates a user is likely to be viewing the contents of the display screen. In such implementations interactive indicators may be queued as they are activated e.g. when the SMS and email messages are received in the example above then displayed when the particular position is detected e.g. when the device detects that the user is likely viewing the screen contents . As another example the interactive indicators may be displayed when the display of the mobile device is powered on e.g. following a transition from a reduced power mode such a dark display sleep mode .

In some implementations additional levels of information or detail may be provided when the mobile device receives user input associated with an interactive indicator as will now be described with reference to .

Upon receipt of user input selecting the interactive indicator a second level of information can be displayed as depicted in screenshot B. In this example a pop up window appears which provides a second level of detail that provides more detail than is provided by the first level of detail. In particular as depicted in one implementation a sender subject line and first portion of the body of an email message are provided in contrast to just the sender and subject line depicted in screenshots A D .

In some implementations two inputs e.g. two touch selections may be necessary to cause the pop up window to be displayed. In particular touch input associated with the interactive indicator depicted in screenshot A may activate the interactive indicators. That is the interactive indicators may be in an inactive state e.g. a state in which input associated with them activates them but does not immediately bring up a second level of information . Upon receipt of input associated with one of the interactive indicators the interactive indicator s may be transitioned to an active state and the character of the interactive indicators may change such as by being displayed in a slightly different window e.g. a larger floating window . Subsequent input associated with a specific interactive indicator in its active state e.g. the envelope icon may then cause the pop up window to be displayed. In this manner unwanted presentations of more detailed levels of information which may otherwise result for example by inadvertent contact by the user with the status bar and which may annoy the user may be prevented. The window can also provide another function and advantage as is now described.

The window can assist a user in accurately selecting a desired icon. In general the window shows an enlargement of a selectable object underneath what has been determined by the device to be a location of a finger or other pressing selection. The particular selected item under the selection is enlarged upon a touch in that location so that a user may more readily see what object was selected in case the user did not intend to select that particular object. In some implementations the objects on each side of the selected object may also be enlarged either to the same extent as is the selected object or to a lesser extent so that the selected objects blend with the surrounding interface. Also objects around the enlarged objects may lay underneath the newly enlarged objects or may be pushed outward to make room for the enlarged objects. The level of enlargement may also increase one or more times e.g. multiple times while the user keeps his or her finger or other pointer pressed down up until a maximum level of enlargement. The user may then roll or slide his or her finger or other pointer if the selected object is not the object he or she intended to select. A selection action may be invoked upon a pointer up condition.

On devices with smaller screens such a feature may provide certain usability advantages. For example it may be preferable to provide greater resolution and additional objects from which a user may select. But such an approach may make it difficult for people with large fingers to select the right object and the selected object and adjacent objects that were intended for selection may be hidden beneath their person s finger. By enlarging the objects when the person s finger is still pressed down the system may enable the person to immediately see that there is a problem in their selection and to correct that problem by moving their finger to the proper selection.

The second level of detail may be cumulative relative to multiple alerts interactive indicators or instances of an interactive indicator. For example in the context of an email message indicator the icon and a corresponding preview may be scrolled across the status bar each time an email message is received. For the first email message for which an interactive indicator is displayed the interactive indicator may be displayed as depicted in screenshots A D. For subsequent emails another interactive indicator and corresponding preview content may be displayed as depicted in screenshots A C but only a single interactive indicator may be ultimately displayed for the corresponding application. That is only a single envelope icon may remain after corresponding preview content has been removed from the status bar regardless of how may email messages are announced with a scrolling icon . In other words even though each of multiple email messages may be announced only a single envelope icon may remain in the status bar . 

In this example the second level of detail may include information for each email for which a first level of detail has been provided e.g. a scrolling icon and corresponding preview content . That is as depicted in one example in screen shot B the second level of detail e.g. the pop up window includes detail A B and C for three email messages that may have been received since a user last interacted with a corresponding icon . In other implementations the details A B and C could relate to messages in a corresponding email application that have some characteristic e.g. they may be marked as unread they may be from a particular sender they may have a particular level of priority they may be confidential or they may have some combination of these or other attributes .

In some implementations the mobile device is configured to receive additional input associated with the second level of detail. In response to the additional input the mobile device can provide a third level of detail in response to such additional input or take some other action. For example the mobile device may activate an application associated with interactive indicator in response to user selection of the second level of detail. In particular for example a user could select the Dora Explora detail B to activate an email application.

Activating an application can include launching the application if it is not already running i.e. actively loaded in temporary memory of the mobile device such as RAM . Activating the application can also include giving the application focus e.g. bringing a graphical user interface associated with the application to the foreground of the display and setting the focus of appropriate input devices a touch screen application buttons a soft keyboard etc. to that application. In this example input associated with the Dora Explora detail B may bring the email application to the foreground.

Activating an application may cause the second level of detail e.g. the pop up window to disappear. In some implementations the first level of detail e.g. the envelope icon may also be removed from the display. For example the mobile device may cause the envelope icon to be removed from the status bar when a corresponding email application is activated. In other implementations the second level of detail e.g. the pop up window disappears but the first level of detail e.g. the envelope icon in the status bar may remain. In the context of the above example for instance the envelope icon may remain in the status bar until the second level of detail for the other messages detail A and C is selected or until the corresponding massages are processed in some manner in the application e.g. until the email messages are read in the email application .

Activating the application can also include setting the focus of the application to correspond to a third level of information associated with the interactive indicator. In the context of the above example pertaining to email messages input associated with the Dora Explora detail B can cause the email application to activated and the corresponding Dora Explora email to be opened e.g. in a preview or editing pane window or frame associated with the email application .

In some implementations the second level of detail may facilitate additional user interaction. For example selection of the detail B may cause the full corresponding message or a larger portion thereof to be displayed within the pop up window without causing the underlying application to be launched. As another example selection of the detail B may activate various controls within the pop up window or in another pop up window to dispose of corresponding content in the underlying application e.g. in this context controls may be provided for marking the Dora Explora message as read in the email application or for deleting the message or routing it to a folder or taking some other action . In this manner the interactive indicators can in some implementations enable the user of the mobile device to efficiently process information without causing extra or unnecessary context switches in the mobile device or on the display screen .

Examples have been provided in the context of SMS and email messaging applications but interactive indicators can be provided for any application. Some such applications are applications that are provided with the mobile device e.g. by the manufacturer of the mobile device or by the service provider associated with the mobile device other applications are added to the mobile device by the user e.g. by downloading them from a third party by adding them through an interface that facilitates addition of user programs or by direct programming by the user . In particular as will be described in more detail with reference to other figures some implementations permit interactive indicators to be associated with and activated by any application running on the mobile device. For purposes of illustration two additional examples are briefly described.

One example of another application that can employ interactive indicators is an application that uses location sensing technology in the mobile device to detect when the mobile device is nearing a bus stop e.g. a location that has been registered or configured as a bus stop . Input from the location sensing technology e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS module can cause an interactive indicator to appear in the status bar e.g. an icon in the shape of a bus . Subsequent user selection of the interactive indicator can cause a pop up window to appear from which the user can select particular information from a second level of detail such as a specific bus route from a list of different bus routes e.g. specific routes that are stored in the mobile device that the user has previously configured or routes that are downloaded e.g. dynamically from a third party s site or service .

Subsequent user selection of the second level of detail can cause a third level of detail to be provided. In particular for example a time that a next bus for the selected route is to arrive at the bus stop nearest the mobile device may be displayed. Such information can be retrieved from data stored on the mobile device or the information may be retrieved from a third party s site or service e.g. dynamically . As another example the third level of detail could include a full schedule for the selected route or an alternate route e.g. if a bus recently passed the stop and some time will pass before another bus is expected .

An additional example of another application that can employ interactive indicators is an application for notifying a user when a particular profile available through a social networking service or site e.g. FACEBOOK MYSPACE FRIENDSTER etc. is updated. An application running in the background on the mobile device may periodically query a social networking service to determine if a particular profile has recently been updated e.g. a profile that a user of the mobile device has configured to be checked or a profile recently visited from the mobile device . If the application determines that the profile has been updated since a previous query an interactive indicator may be provided in the status bar e.g. an icon in the shape of a person s head .

Subsequent user selection of the interactive indicator may provide a second level of detail e.g. a pop up window indicating when the profile was updated . The second level of detail may provide additional information such as the last time other profiles were updated that the mobile device user may be interested in. User selection of the second level of detail may cause a browser application to be activated and content to be retrieved from the corresponding profile or another social networking application may be activated possibly with a focus set to the corresponding profile .

The above examples illustrate various aspects of interactive indicators. The reader will appreciate that interactive indicators can be employed in any other context for example contexts where it is advantageous to provide a user with some sort of an alert message and subsequently allow the user to interact with the alert message in order to receive progressively more information associated with the alert message or the underlying application or application data that caused the alert message to be launched.

As depicted in one implementation in the mobile device includes a display screen and possibly other output devices which are not shown input devices e.g. buttons a hard keyboard a soft keyboard such as an image of a keyboard on a touch sensitive screen etc. and applications e.g. programming code stored in memory that can be executed by a processor to receive input from the input devices process the input and present corresponding output in the display screen or through other output devices. A display module can include programming code and hardware necessary to receive information from the applications and from other sources transform the information into a format that is suitable for controlling the display screen e.g. a pixel format that specifies data for each pixel in the display screen including for example a row and column address a color for the pixel and an intensity for the pixel and provide the transformed information to the display screen or more particularly a hardware interface that controls the display screen in some implementations .

As described above with reference to other figures some applications can include messaging applications e.g. SMS or email applications . Accordingly the mobile device can include messaging data storage reserved for the messaging data e.g. an area for storing sent messages or messages in an inbox .

The mobile device can also include a device status monitor e.g. a static indicator module for monitoring various system aspects of the mobile device. For example the device status monitor can monitor the power remaining in a battery depicted by element included in the mobile device and the device status monitor can cause a graphical depiction of the remaining power to be displayed in the display screen by providing appropriate information to the display module . In particular for example the device status monitor can cause a static indicator such as the battery icon that is shown in the status bar in or the battery life indicator shown in described more below . As another example the device status monitor can monitor signal strength e.g. with a signal strength monitoring device e.g. a receiver of a wireless communication signal that is currently available to the mobile device and can cause an icon to be displayed that depicts the signal strength. In particular for example the device status monitor can cause a static indicator such as the four bars that are shown in the status bar in or the signal strength indicator shown in described more below . As another example the device status monitor can cause a current time to be displayed in the status bar e.g. as an analog clock icon or a digital indication of time based on input received from a timing module depicted as element which could be for example an internal time keeping mechanism and or a receiver that periodically extracts timing information from received wireless communication signals .

To provide interactive icon functionality the mobile device can include an interface and an alert management module . In some implementations the alert management module receives alert information from one or more of the applications and generates interactive icons in response to the alert information. In particular with reference to the example interactive email indicator described above and illustrated in screenshots A D the alert management module can receive information from a corresponding email application that an email message has been received. The alert management module can also receive additional information about the email message such as for example a corresponding sender subject and a portion of the content e.g. a snippet of content or the full body of the message.

With the additional information the alert management module can generate different levels of detail for the email message which can be provided in an interactive indicator and in additional windows or applications that may be activated in response to user interaction with the interactive indicator. In particular for example the alert management module can cause an initial icon to be displayed e.g. the envelope icon that is depicted as scrolling across the status bar in as well as the corresponding preview content sender and subject . The alert management module can also cause the pop up window depicted in to be displayed in response to user interaction e.g. user selection with a pointing device or with tactile input on a touch sensitive screen .

In one implementation as depicted in the mobile device can employ the interface to receive information from the applications and provide this information to the alert management module possibly in a different format . The interface can in some implementations shield the alert management module and display module from being directly accessed by the applications . By shielding the alert management module and the display module the interface may protect the mobile device from crashes exceptions or other errors caused by poorly written or malicious programming code in the applications . Malicious code can be of particular concern in cases where aspects of the mobile device are open to direct interaction by custom applications that the user may add to the mobile device. For example with an open architecture in which any developer can create new applications that use interactive indicator functionality the interface can intercept malicious of errant code before such code compromises the integrity of the display module or the mobile device itself.

In some implementations the interface can protect against errant or malicious code by providing information to the display module or the alert management module through controlled protected function calls. That is information to be displayed on the display screen may be provided to the display module only through protected function calls and those protected function calls may only be accessible to the interface rather than being directly accessible to the applications. In such scenarios data may be passed from the applications to the interface along with requests e.g. control signals for the data to be passed to the display module or the alert management module but the applications may not have the capability to directly control the display screen or other hardware functionality thereby reducing the risk that errant or malicious applications will be able to crash the mobile device

The use of calls to protected functions by the interface is just one example of how the mobile device may protect against errant or malicious code crashing or otherwise causing undesirable behavior. Other methods can be employed to provide a mobile device that is resistant to malicious or errant code. For example an operating system can rigorously manage various application threads or programs that may be running on the mobile device and terminate any threads or programs that are not behaving in predictable manners. More particularly a thread that repeatedly attempts to make outgoing calls may be terminated a thread that is consuming more than a threshold amount of processing time or memory without much corresponding output may also be terminated. As another example certain functions within the mobile device may be restricted to respond only to function calls from certain regions of memory or from certain modules within the mobile device. Moreover format of the function calls may be rigorously checked and the function calls may be ignored if the format is not appropriate in order to reduce the likelihood that malicious or errant function calls will be made. Other methods of protecting a device from errant or malicious code are known and contemplated.

The method can include displaying device status indicators in a status area. For example with reference to static indicators for signal strength element remaining battery power element or current time element can be displayed in the status bar . With reference to the static indicators may be displayed in response to information from the device status monitor e.g. information captured by monitoring elements or .

The method can include receiving information from an application to display an alert e.g. an interactive indicator in the status area of a display screen. For example with reference to the alert management module can receive information e.g. an indication that an email message has been received from one of the applications e.g. an email messaging application . The alert management module may receive the information indirectly through the interface . That is the appropriate application from the applications may indicate to the interface that an alert message e.g. an interactive indicator should be provided the interface may in turn provide this information to the alert management module in a manner that protects the integrity of the mobile device e.g. through a protected function call .

The method can include displaying in the status area a first level of information for the alert e.g. status alert information and a user selectable control. For example with reference to and in the context of an interactive indicator associated with an email message an envelope icon can be displayed in the status bar e.g. scrolled across the status bar and a first level of information can be provided with the icon e.g. preview content such as a sender and subject line or portion thereof associated with the email . In some implementations the preview content is displayed for a short period of time e.g. a user review period such as five seconds 30 seconds or some other period of time . The preview content can be displayed when the corresponding email is received or in response to some other input e.g. input indicating that the mobile device is positioned such that a user is likely to be viewing contents of the display screen .

The method can include displaying in response to selection of the user selectable control a second level of information. For example with reference to user input such as user selection on a touch sensitive screen of the envelope icon can cause the pop up window to be displayed which can provide a second level of detail which provides more detail that initially provided. In particular for example the second level of detail can include a snippet or portion of the body of the email message as depicted by elements A C.

In some implementations the method includes activating an application associated with the received information that was received to display the initial alert in response to selection of the second level of information. For example in response to user selection of the detail B in the pop up window an email application can be activated e.g. brought to the foreground of the display or launched if not currently active and focus in the application can be set to the content of the interactive indicator e.g. the specific email message announced by the interactive indicator .

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that provides interactive indicators is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to provide interactive indicators which can reveal progressively more information about an alert message in response to user interaction with the corresponding interactive indicator.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Possible elements that may be displayed on the display include for example a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time. Interactive indicators can also be dynamically displayed not shown in as described above.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit color or better.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for interactive indicators. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 3 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some implementations the computer program product includes instructions that generate interactive indicators.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible for interactive indicators to be provided using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions described herein as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

In some implementations the operating system is organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver an M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager which may include components such as the display module interface and alert management module shown in that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application and a browser application .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status or other static indicators described with reference to see e.g. elements and allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager the activity manager or the notification manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific processes can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent.

The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager and alert management module shown in window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager and device status monitor shown in core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed implementations. For example interactive indicators can be provided for various mobile devices even though the examples and figures herein generally relate to mobile communication devices e.g. smartphones . Moreover interactive indicators can be provided for other devices that are not traditionally characterized as mobile devices particularly devices that have a touch sensitive display. In particular for example dash mounted vehicle navigation systems and display equipped consumer appliances e.g. washers dryers dishwashers microwaves refrigerators wine cabinets coffee makers etc. can also provide interactive indicators. The interactive indicators can be associated with virtually any application in addition to those applications described above. Two or three levels of detail are described but other numbers of levels of detail can be provided as well. Example methods of providing interactive indicator information have been described e.g. scrolling messages pop up windows etc. but the reader will appreciate that the principles described herein can be applied to other methods of providing interactive indicators. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

