---

title: Document generation based on target device availability
abstract: Examples disclose a method to query an availability of a target device. Additionally, the method generates a document for transmission to the target device based on the availability of the target device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311027&OS=09311027&RS=09311027
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09311027
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130328
---
Services for document generation and delivery may include printers and other target devices connected in networks to receive documents. The documents transmitted within the networks may have limited distribution to particular devices and or to the number of times the document is transmitted. Such documents may include coupons and or personal content that may have limited distribution.

A document with limited distribution may be tracked through document generation and delivery systems such as a printing system however it may be difficult to track the document once it has reached the printer or other target device. For example the document may be submitted to the printer regardless of the printer availability. Such a printing job would fail as the printers may be unavailable reducing the printer yield and wasting system resources. In another example the document may be submitted to the printer once the printer became available however the content within the document may be stale i.e. out of date since the document may be generated in advance of the printer availability.

To address these issues examples disclosed herein provide a method to effectively utilize resources by querying for target device availability prior to generating a document. The examples disclosed herein provide the method executed by a computing device to query the availability of the target device and depending on whether the target device is available the method generates the document for transmission to the target device. The method may increase the delivery of successful documents to the target device by checking the availability which reduces the system load as fewer failed documents are processed. Additionally querying the availability of the target device prior to document generation provides up to date content within the document once the target device becomes available.

In another example the method disclosed herein further includes wherein querying the availability of the target device includes obtaining an assurance value of the target device. The assurance value indicates a likelihood of success of a printing job completion and may be based on a prior printing job by the printer. Obtaining the assurance value of the target device enables the computing device to track the predictability of the target device over a period of time further increasing the successful delivery of documents.

Additionally the examples provide the target device may include a printer including the target device as the printer enables the method to go through printer readiness to increase printing jobs successfully delivered and or printed at the printer. This improves the yield of print jobs as more print jobs are successfully delivered and printed.

In summary examples disclosed herein provide an effective utilization of system resources by querying an availability of a target device prior to document generation. Additionally the examples as disclosed herein reduce the system load as fewer failed documents are processed.

Referring now to the figures is a block diagram of an example networking system including a computing device with an interface to query an availability of a target device . Based on the availability of the target device the computing device includes a document generator to generate a document for transmission to the target device . The networking system represents a type of printing system with a network connection. The network may include a local area network LAN and or wide area network WAN . The computing device is a host device that represents services that may be provided on a server within the network. Examples of the computing device include a server personal computer mobile device desktop computer or other type of electronic device capable of interfacing with the target device and generating a document.

The interface queries the availability of the target device to receive the generated document. The interface refers to a point of interaction between the computing device and the target device . In one example the interface includes an application programming interface API to query the availability of the target device . Examples of the interface include a computing interface hardware interface programming interface and or application interface.

The document generator generates content and or document upon determining the target device is available. The document is an electronic file that contains content and as such may include a word document media document text file portable document format or other type of electronic file for transmission to the target device upon the determination the target device is available. In one example the document generator is a service application located within the networking system. In this example the computing device communicates with this service on another computing device such as a server to obtain the document.

The availability query is a communication from the computing device to the target device . Upon receiving the availability query from the target device the computing device may instruct the document generator to proceed with generating the document for transmission to the target device . Querying for the availability by communication prior to generating the document at generator ensures the target device is available fur the document that may include limited distribution that may otherwise waste resources. In one example the availability of the target device is based on previous documents transmitted to the target device . For example the computing device may receive a communication from the target device once the previous document was successfully received by the target device . In another example the interface may receive a status code of the target device that represents a current condition of the target device . For example the current condition may include a potential hardware failure or whether the target device has access to the networking system. These examples are explained in detail a later figure.

The target device is a client device capable of communicating over a networking system. Examples of the target device include a client device personal computer mobile device desktop computer or other type of electronic device capable of communication over the networking system.

At operation the computing device queries the availability of the target device. The computing device confirms the target device availability prior to generating a document as at operation . An interface associated with the computing device may query the availability of the target device. The interface refers to a point of interaction between the computing device and the target device and as such may include an application programming interface APT computing interface hardware interface programming interface and or application interface. The availability of the target device may be based on previous documents transmitted to the target device. For example the interface system between the computing device and the target device may receive a communication from the target device once the previous document was successfully received by the target device. In one example the document may be requested by the target device or by a service delivering the document. In this example the request may initiate querying the availability of the target device. In another example the target device may include a printer thus querying the availability of the printer ensures the printer is ready to receive a document to increase the success of the generated documents. Querying the availability the computing device may then determine whether the target device is available at operation for a transmission of the document to the target device.

At operation the computing device determines whether the target device is available. If the target device is available the computing device may generate the document as at operation . If the target device is unavailable the computing device may not generate the document as at operation . The computing device may include instructions obtained from a storage area corresponding to the computing device to determine which operations to execute. Ensuring the target device is available prior to generating the document as at operation ensures resources are used upon determination the target device is available and prevents using resources when the target device is unavailable. The computing device checks the target device s status such as if the target device is available to receive a document and print the document. The availability of the target device is based on a previous document transmitted to the target device. The availability of the previous document may include a communication from the target device to the computing device the communication may include a status code that represents a state of the target device. For example the status code may include whether the target device is available on a networking system whether the target device is low on ink etc.

At operation if the target device is available the computing device may generate the document for transmission to the target device. The document generated at operation may be with limited distribution. For example the document may be generated a limited number of times and or limited to a number of particular target devices indicating the generated document may be limited in allocation. In these examples the generated document may include an identifier corresponding to the limited distribution and or allocation to ensure the generated document is within its limits. In another example the computing device may transmit a signal to a document generating service to obtain the document. In a further example the generated document may include a coupon so the computing device may transmit a signal to the coupon service requesting the coupon. The service may then generate the coupon for the computing device to transmit to the target device. In a further example the computing device may generate the document from a storage component associated with the computing device.

At operation if the target device is unavailable the computing device may not generate the document. In one example if the target device is unavailable the computing device may determine whether the maximum number of queries to check the availability of the target device has been reached. If the maximum number of queries has been reached the computing device aborts the queries. If the maximum number of queries has not been reached the computing device continues querying the availability of the target device until the target device is available or until the maximum number of queries has been reached. This example is explained in detail in the next figure.

At operations the computing device queries the availability of the target device determines whether the target device is available and generates a document if the target device is available. Operations may be similar in functionality to operations as in .

At operation if the target device is unavailable the computing device will determine if the maximum number of queries have been reached. If the maximum number of queries has not been reached the computing device may re query the availability of the target device as at operation . In this example the computing device may wait a period of time prior to re querying the availability of the target device. This enables the computing device to query the target device periodically. If the maximum number of queries has been reached the computing device aborts the queries of the availability of the target device. The maximum number of queries is a pre defined. value as set by an administrator of the computing device.

At operation the computing device aborts querying the target device for its availability. In operation the document may include time sensitive content so by the time the target device is available after a period of multiple re queries the target device may receive out of date content. Setting the maximum number of queries ensures the content within the document is up to date for the target device. Additionally tracking the maximum number of queries ensures the computing device does not waste resources on additional querying when the target device may be in a state of failure etc.

At operations the computing device queries the availability of the target device and depending on whether the target device is available the computing device either generates or does not generate a document. At operation the availability of the target device may be dependent on a status of a previously generated document. For example if a previous generated document was incomplete in printing from the target device the target device may be unavailable. At operation the document may be generated with an identifier to a particular target device. Generating the document with the identifier establishes a type of security feature as the target device may have been authorized for a particular generated document. Operations may be similar in functionality to the operations as in .

At operation the computing device transmits the generated document to the target device. The document is generated at operation upon the determination the target device is available to receive the generated document. In another example the target device may include a printer and the document transmitted to the target device includes a printing job.

At operation the computing device queries the status of the document with regards to the target device. Operation may obtain an identifier corresponding to the generated document at the target device. Obtaining the identifier the computing device determines whether the generated document was successful i.e. complete . If the status of the document is complete the computing device terminates the queries of availability as at operation . If the status of the document is incomplete the computing device re queries the status of the document as at operation until the generated document has reached a terminal state. The terminal state is a current condition of the generated document with respect to the target device. Querying for the current condition of the generated document on the target device enables the computing device to build up an aggregate status of the target device. Building the aggregate status enables the computing device to determine whether the target device is reliable to complete a task with the generated document such as printing the document. The reliability of the target device may be utilized for future determinations of whether the target device is available. For example a printing job that may be incomplete signals to the computing device the target device may be unreliable or suffering a failure.

At operation the computing device re queries the status of the document. Re querying for the status of the generated document on the target device enables the computing device to follow the generated document through to completion or the terminal state. For example if the generated document has not been completed the computing device can track the completion such as the length of time it may take for the target device etc.

At operation the computing device terminates operations since the status of the document is complete. The status indicates the generated document as complete represents the target device successfully received the generated document and or successfully printed the generated document.

At operations the computing device queries for the availability of the printer querying for the availability includes obtaining the assurance value for the printer. The assurance value is a value assigned to the printer which indicates the reliability of the printer and or the likelihood of success of printing the generated document. The assurance value may be obtained with status codes tracked over a period of time the status codes indicating the printer may be unreliable diminish the assurance value while the status codes indicating a high reliability of the printer increases the assurance value. The status codes are weighted accordingly to determine whether the printer is available. For example the status codes indicating the printer may be unreliable may include a previous failed print job lower ink levels missing ink cartridge mechanical issues and or low levels of printing paper. In another example the status codes indicating the reliability of the printer may include a previous successful print job adequate levels of ink or other type of codes indicating the reliability of the printer. The status codes are communicated from the printer to the computing device for tracking the reliability or unreliability of the printer.

At operation the computing device determines whether the assurance value obtained at operation is below a particular threshold value. The threshold value is a pre defined value that represents the likelihood of success or failure of the generated document at the printer. If the assurance value is below the threshold the computing device executes operations . If the assurance value is at or above the threshold value the computing device executes operations .

At operations if the assurance value is below the particular threshold the computing device may determine what type of content to remove. The content to be removed from the generated document may include content that includes limited publication. For example this may include a bank statement which may include a single generation for allocation or a particular limited number of coupons.

At operations the computing device generates the document and transmits the document to the printer. Operations may be similar in functionality to operations and as in .

The processor may fetch decode and execute instructions to query the availability of the target device to generate a document for transmission to the target device. Specifically the processor executes instructions to query the availability of the target device instructions to obtain an assurance value of the target device e.g. printer the assurance value indicates a likelihood of printing a document on the target device instructions to determine if the assurance value is below a particular value and if the assurance value is below the particular value the processor executes instructions to remove content that may have limited distribution instructions determines whether a maximum number of queries for the availability has been reached and if so the processor executes instructions to abort the queries otherwise instructions continues querying for the availability of the target device if the maximum number of queries has not been reached instructions generates the document based on the availability of the target device instructions transmits the generated document to the target device and instructions queries a status of the generated document as at the target device such as whether the generated document has been printed. In one implementation once executing instructions the processor may execute instructions . In another implementation once executing instruction the processor may then execute instructions .

The machine readable storage medium includes instructions for the processor to fetch decode and execute. In another embodiment the machine readable storage medium may be an electronic magnetic optical memory storage flash drive or other physical device that contains or stores executable instructions. Thus the machine readable storage medium may include for example Random Access Memory RAM an Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM a storage drive a memory cache network storage a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CDROM and the like. As such the machine readable storage medium may include an application and or firmware which can be utilized independently and or in conjunction with the processor to fetch decode and or execute instructions of the machine readable storage medium . The application and or firmware may be stored on the machine readable storage medium and or stored on another location of the computing device .

In summary examples disclosed herein provide an effective utilization of system resources by querying an availability of a target device prior to document generation. Additionally the examples as disclosed herein reduce the system load as fewer failed documents are processed.

