---

title: Visual voicemail management
abstract: A voicemail message management system and method are provided. A list of voicemail messages is displayed on a screen such as a cellular telephone screen. Indicators specify whether messages are new, urgent, saved, not yet heard, and the like. Other attributes can also be displayed, including for example indications as to source of a message, message duration, date/time, caller, urgent or private, and the like. These indicators provide guidance to the user for selecting which messages he or she would like to hear at a given time. The user can listen to messages, delete them, move them, categorize them, and perform other operations in any order the user chooses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08862101&OS=08862101&RS=08862101
owner: Avaya Integrated Cabinet Solutions Inc.
number: 08862101
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130311
---
This application is a continuation patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 475 651 filed Jun. 26 2006 entitled VISUAL VOICEMAIL MANAGEMENT which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 694 893 titled VISUAL VOICEMAIL AND CALL MANAGER filed Jun. 28 2005 the disclosure of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates generally to management of voicemail messages and more specifically to visual techniques for user interaction and management of such messages.

Voicemail systems typically notify a user when the user has one or more new messages. This notification can take the form of an icon on a mobile phone or a light or stutter dial tone on a home phone. This scheme may be sufficient for a user who receives an occasional voicemail message but with the growing use of voicemail many users have a multitude of new messages to sort through. Most widely deployed voicemail platforms require the user to listen to messages sequentially. It is difficult for a user to determine which if any voicemail messages they want to listen to without listening to at least part of each of his or her new messages.

Mobile phones display call logs that represent all calls received or dialed by the mobile device. On some devices these logs are combined and on other devices they are displayed as separate lists. A typical mobile phone user also has other phones such as an office phone and a home phone. The user has no integrated view of all their phone calls and voicemail messages.

Some systems place voicemail messages in an audio file attach that file to an e mail and send the e mail to the user. The user can manage their voicemail using their existing e mail client. There are some disadvantages of mixing voicemail and email including the following 

What is needed therefore is an improved technique for managing voicemail messages in a visual way that does not impose the undesired limitations of email based systems.

According to the techniques of the present invention a list of voicemail messages is displayed on a screen. Indicators specify whether messages are new urgent saved not yet heard and the like. Other attributes can also be displayed including for example indications as to source of a message message duration date time caller urgent or private and the like. These indicators provide guidance to the user for selecting which messages he or she would like to hear at a given time.

In one embodiment the message list resembles an e mail list in an e mail application. The user interacts with a visual interface to manage the voicemail messages. For example the user can listen to messages delete them forward them save them move them to folders and or perform other actions.

The visual interface of the present invention can be implemented on any device including for example a mobile phone other mobile device computer website or the like.

One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

In one embodiment the present invention is implemented as a user interface for interacting with and managing voicemail messages on a device such as a cellular telephone. Accordingly the descriptions and illustrations presented herein set forth the invention in such a context. One skilled in the art will recognize however that the techniques described herein can be implemented in any other context. For example the invention described herein can be implemented as a user interface for interacting with and managing voicemail messages on a computer handheld computer personal digital assistant kiosk landline telephone or any other device.

In one embodiment the techniques of the present invention are implemented in software on a cellular telephone. One software platform that can be used is Java 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME although one skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention can be implemented in other platforms as well

Referring now to there is shown a screen shot depicting a launch screen for a visual voicemail system according to one embodiment of the present invention. Launch screen is shown on a cell phone . Launch screen is one mechanism for initiating the functionality of the present invention although one skilled in the art will recognize that the functionality described herein can be initiated by other mechanisms including automatic or manual initiation techniques. For example in one embodiment when a voicemail message is received or a call is missed an alert is presented to the user. The alert can take any form including an auditory alert beep or other sound vibration alert visual alert flashing LED or the like or any combination thereof. A status screen as shown in is displayed which lets the user know how many voicemail messages have been received and facilitates access to the voicemail message management functionality of the present invention.

In the example shown in launch screen includes a number of commands for initiating various phone related functions. One such command is a Visual Voice Mail command A which provides access to the functionality described herein.

Referring now to there are shown a number of screen shots depicting an example of a user interface for a visual voicemail system according to one embodiment of the present invention. In one embodiment a Voicemail screen is shown on cell phone in response to the user activating Visual Voice Mail command A shown in . Voicemail screen includes a list of voicemail messages. Various icons and indicators specify which messages are new saved urgent and the like. Additional attributes can also be shown including for example the telephone number from which the voicemail originated the identity of the caller and the like. As described below such information can be shown directly in list or can be accessed by selecting an item from list . List may be scrollable if there are more messages than can reasonably be shown on screen .

Screen as shown in depicts some examples of listed messages including telephone numbers for some names for others and icons indicating whether the voicemail message originated from the caller s cell phone home phone or work phone. One skilled in the art will recognize that other information can also be shown depending on user preferences display size and other factors such other information can include length time of call urgency privacy level telephone number from which the call originated telephone number called listened to state saved state caller supplied text message directory name from a personal corporate public or other directory of the caller and the like. In one embodiment such information is shown in response to the user highlighting a particular voicemail message in such an embodiment the information can be shown on the same screen for example in a pop up window or by expanding the region of screen devoted to the highlighted item or on a details screen as shown in .

Messages can be listed in chronological order or in order of priority or in whatever order the user wishes. Voicemail screen thus provides an at a glance view of received messages in whatever format and sequence is desired.

The user can manage voicemail messages by interacting with screen or . In one embodiment numeric keys on keypad of cell phone correspond to various functions that can be performed on messages. In another embodiment the user can navigate among commands in an on screen menu using navigational controls of cell phone .

In one embodiment the user selects a message by moving a highlight . Activating the message for example by clicking on center button within navigational controls or by clicking on a softkey corresponding to a listen command causes the message to be played. In one embodiment details screen is shown while the message is being played. The user can press the 1 key to replay the message the 2 key to pause it the 3 key to delete it or the 4 key to skip it. Other commands are also possible for example skipping forward or backward by a certain number of seconds or slowing down or speeding up playback. Also commands can be provided for tagging a message.

In one embodiment the present invention allows a user to listen to voicemail messages without requiring the user to dial into a voicemail system. Users need only select the voicemail message from screen and indicate that the message should be played.

As shown in the user can also access an additional action screen containing more options and commands that can be performed on a particular voicemail message. The user can select among the displayed options and commands for example using navigational controls of cell phone .

As mentioned above the user interface for interacting with and managing voicemail messages can be implemented on any type of device or machine. Accordingly the screens depicted here are intended to be illustrative of one embodiment. One skilled in the art will recognize that other configurations and mechanisms may be appropriate depending on the type and capabilities of the device being used.

In one embodiment list displayed to the user in screen can also include calls that did not result in voicemail. Accordingly list can form a call log including incoming and outgoing calls for any number of phone numbers which may or may not include telephone numbers other than those associated with the device. Incoming calls that result in voicemail messages can be flagged using an icon. Messages not associated with a call such as inter system messages and broadcast messages can also be displayed in the call log voicemail message list or in both. In one embodiment different message types are flagged by displaying an identifying icon next to the message element in the list .

In one embodiment as shown in call log is presented as a separate list from voicemail list . Status screen allows the user to select which of the two should be displayed. In one embodiment status screen shows how many entries are in call log indicated as missed calls and how many voicemail messages are in list . As discussed above in one embodiment status screen is presented when an alert is issued signifying a missed call or received voicemail message.

In one embodiment the system of the present invention gathers call log information from multiple sources including private branch exchanges PBX mobile switch centers and or land line switches. The system can draw information from multiple voicemail platforms allowing a user to see listen to and manage their home office mobile and other voicemail. The system can display all of a user s voicemail from multiple sources platforms interleaved into a list in chronological order as a separate list for each source or as a list sorted in some other way. Management commands listen save delete etc. made by the user on a particular message are translated by the invention to the necessary Application Programming Interface API or other interface needed to execute the command on the voicemail platform containing the message. In this way the message store platform is kept synchronized by the invention with actions such as delete listen to save etc. taken by the user from the remote device.

In one embodiment voicemail messages are stored in a central location or in one or more locations and are retrieved in response to a user request to listen to a message. In another embodiment voicemail messages are pre fetched and stored locally at the device . Maintaining a local cache of voicemail messages in this manner enables the system of the present invention to provide quicker access to voicemail messages and can even allow users to listen to their voicemail messages from locales where no connection is available for example on an airplane .

In one embodiment operations performed on the voicemail messages via the techniques described herein are synchronized with a central voicemail message store or with the appropriate voicemail store if there are more than one so that the system integrates with existing voicemail systems. For example if a user deletes a voicemail message using the deletion command of the present invention the voicemail message would also be deleted in the central store of voicemail messages.

The user may reply to a call or voicemail message by placing a call sending a voicemail message text message e mail instant messaging or in other ways. Reply addressing information comes from the voicemail platform s a database internal to the invention a directory corporate or other or from other sources. When the user decides to leave a voicemail message as a reply or to forward a voicemail message 

1. A call can be placed by the device directly to the original caller s voicemail platform. The call can be placed to the pilot telephone number of voicemail platform and the device can inform the platform which user is being messaged by sending identifying data over a data channel in the background or through DTMF on the voice channel 

2. A message can be recorded on the device and sent to the caller s voicemail platform. In this case the greeting of the called person can be streamed to the user s device for playback to the user to confirm they are messaging the correct person.

In making the decision whether to reply to a voicemail by placing a return call or by sending a return voicemail or to defer any reply the user may consider the presence of the caller. Presence used in this sense refers to the individual s availability to receive a call and can include an indication as to whether the individual is in a meeting at home in transit and the like. Accordingly a presence indicator such as an icon can be shown in list adjacent to the call and or the voicemail. Alternatively the item within list can be shown in bold face or some other distinctive typeface to indicate the presence of the caller. Presence indicators assist the user in deciding when and how direct call or voicemail message to respond to the caller s voicemail.

In one embodiment a caller can specify a subject to be associated with a voicemail message. This subject can be displayed in the visual message list so as to give an indication to the called party as to the subject matter of the voicemail message. The subject can be composed using speech recognition text entry selection from a prepopulated list general or personalized from a hierarchical selection process or using a context sensitive selection process for example first selection is from I You We etc next selection is from common verbs and the final selection is common direct objects . The user can also associate a subject to a reply voicemail.

Responsive to a user s indication that a voicemail messages should be played back the system of the present invention can perform one of the following operations 

In one embodiment a Short Message Service SMS message is used to wake up the device and cause it to retrieve and store the voicemail message. In an alternative embodiment polling is performed the device periodically checks to see if the server has any messages for it to retrieve and store. Having messages stored on the device facilitates the forwarding of messages through a data connection.

In one embodiment a return call to the sender or to the sender s voicemail box can easily be made from the screen that shows voicemail messages.

Referring now to there is shown a method for making a call in response to a voicemail message. A user selects a voicemail message from list and requests that the original caller be called back. This request can be made for example by selecting a Call Back command from screen as shown in .

In response to the user request the telephone system initiates a call to the user and to the original caller and bridges the two calls so that the two parties can talk to one another.

In one embodiment after the call to the user has been initiated the user answers the call and enters an acknowledgment before the telephone system initiates the call to the original caller. For example the user may be instructed to press a key such as the pound sign so as to confirm that he or she has answered the phone and is ready to talk to the original caller. Only then does the telephone system proceed with initiating the call to the original caller.

The telephone system then bridges the two calls so that the user can talk to the original caller or leave a message for the original caller.

In one embodiment the user can request that the telephone system call the user at any arbitrary telephone number. Accordingly the Call Back command may include options for other telephone numbers where the user can be reached. If the user wishes to be called on a landline for example he or she can so indicate. Such functionality is also useful if the device on which the voicemail messages are retrieved does not itself have telephone capability. In one embodiment the telephone system can call the user at a number where the user is known to be reachable whether or not the user has specified the number.

The caller ID for the call to the original caller can be set to the caller ID of the user s desk phone to give the appearance to the original caller that the user is calling from his or her office.

A junk voicemail call filter can be applied by the invention using a database of known junk callers. This database can take user feedback to identify junk callers. For example if a user marks a voicemail or call as junk and some number of other users do the same to voicemails or calls from the same caller then all that caller s messages or calls to any user could be marked as suspect or be automatically deleted.

Different voicemail platforms have different sets of IVR commands to control the management of voicemail messages. For example pressing 3 on some voicemail platforms deletes a message while key 7 is used for that function on other platforms. In one embodiment the system of the present invention can be personalized by a user to emulate the commands of another voicemail platform.

In one embodiment the system of the present invention allows multiple devices clients to access the same set of a user s voicemail boxes. The system automatically synchronizes all clients and all voicemail boxes.

Referring now to there is shown an architecture for implementing the present invention according to one embodiment. Server provides the functionality for voicemail management described herein. Server accesses messages stored in voicemail store and made available via voicemail system . Server and voicemail system are connected to local area network LAN that facilitates communication between server and voicemail system using any known communication protocol such as HTTP IMAP4 XML SMPP or the like or any combination thereof.

Handset which may be a cell phone communicates with server using a communication protocol such as HTTP to receive information about voicemail messages and to initiate requests for playback and management of such messages under user control. In one embodiment such communication takes place via wireless data network and over the Internet using well known digital communication techniques. In one embodiment LAN is protected by firewall and communications via wireless data network are authenticated so that they can be permitted to pass through firewall .

Cell phone is also in communication with wireless voice network and Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN via known techniques for mobile telephone implementation. Conventional dial in to voicemail system is facilitated via voice network and PSTN although in some situations such dial in may be rendered unnecessary in view of the direct digital communication capability between cell phone and server .

The system of the present invention is capable of operation in connection with legacy and IP based networks legacy and standards based voicemail etc. The invention can access voicemail platforms using IP VOIP SIP MAPI IMAP PIMAP Push IMAP and or other standards and protocols.

Referring now to there is shown an architecture in which the visual voicemail techniques of the present invention are integrated with an enterprise architecture. Here the present invention is implemented in conjunction with corporate network . Components such as firewall LAN server are located within network . Desktop computer also located within network communicates with server via LAN while computer located outside network communicates with server via a wide area network WAN not shown . Either computer or can be used to control the operation of server via HTTP based communication.

In general the operation of the architecture shown in is similar to that of . Also located within network are additional components which can integrate with the system described herein. Unity server available from Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. provides email and voicemail integration and can communication with Exchange servers and server using MAPI and or IMAP protocols for example via LAN . Exchange servers handle email communications and can communicate with Live Communications Server LCS both of these components use technologies available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Call Manager handles incoming and outgoing telephone calls and communicates with PSTN via trunk lines according to conventional techniques. In one embodiment call manager interacts with IP phones such as those available from Cisco Systems.

Server communicates with call manager to cause the selective rerouting of calls originally placed the user s PBX extension for example using JTAPI AXL protocols. Server also communicates with LCS for example to retrieve and update corporate directory information.

Server retrieves and manages user voicemail messages by communicating directly with one or more voicemail stores servers and or indirectly through a voicemail platform . Server can be administered configured and maintained using a computer on the LAN . A visual voicemail display can be retrieved from server from a desk phone .

The system of the present invention provides several advantages over conventional techniques for managing voicemail messages. For example 

The present invention has been described in particular detail with respect to one possible embodiment. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced in other embodiments. First the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Further the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead be performed by a single component.

Some portions of above description present the features of the present invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain aspects of the present invention include process steps and instructions described herein in the form of an algorithm. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of the present invention could be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software could be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by real time network operating systems.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored on a computer readable medium that can be accessed by the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore the computers referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

The algorithms and operations presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent to those of skill in the along with equivalent variations. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present invention as described herein and any references to specific languages are provided for invention of enablement and best mode of the present invention.

The present invention is well suited to a wide variety of computer network systems over numerous topologies. Within this field the configuration and management of large networks comprise storage devices and computers that are communicatively coupled to dissimilar computers and storage devices over a network such as the Internet.

Finally it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

