---

title: Optical device for beam combining and/or routing and method
abstract: A beam combining device comprising at least one beam splitter and phase adjustment circuitry. The at least one beam splitter comprises a semi-reflective surface, first and second inputs, and first and second outputs operatively connected to receive first and second light beams. The semi-reflective surface has first and second sides positioned such that light entering from one input is partially reflected through one output and partially transmitted through another output. The phase adjustment circuitry adjusts the relative phases of the first and second light beams so that light transmitted through the semi reflective surface from one input may be adjusted to have a phase which can cancels or constructively adds to light reflected from another input. Light having a combined power of the light beams, or a fraction thereof, may be selectively emitted through a selective output depending upon the adjustment of phases. Also, a method of operation is claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09612412&OS=09612412&RS=09612412
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09612412
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131031
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties.

The power output of lasers is typically limited by catastrophic damage to the components due to the high intracavity intensities. Use of a master oscillator power amplifier MOPA configuration allows the power to be increased but for amplifiers of finite cross sectional area the output power can still limited by damage at the exit face. Further increases in the power of a MOPA system can be obtained by combining multiple amplifiers in parallel. For incoherent combination there is no fixed phase relationship between the electromagnetic field emitted by the various amplifiers. For coherent combination there is. If in addition the emitted wavefronts are planar and in phase the divergence of the output will be smaller for coherent combination than it would be for incoherent combination. This comparison assumes the same wavelength and total aperture size in both cases. A smaller divergence for coherent combination leads to a smaller spot in the far field or in the focal plane of a lens. The same power in a smaller spot means a higher intensity on the sample or target.

For both coherent and incoherent combination spatial variations in the intensity of the output beams will increase the divergence. Even if the intensities are spatially uniform if there are gaps between the multiple apertures e.g. when circular apertures are arranged in a hexagonal pattern the divergence will increase. For this reason it is sometimes desirable to spatially overlap the output beams thereby increasing the fill factor and decreasing the divergence.

Electronic control of the relative phases of the multiple outputs allows for a degree of beam steering without the need for a moving mirror. Such a system is called a phased array. Beam steering with a phased array can be used to engage a moving target for example. Usually it is done with collimated beams and no additional optics.

at least one beam splitter comprising a semi reflective surface first and second inputs and first and second outputs the at least one beam splitter operatively connected to receive first and second light beams at the first and second inputs respectively the semi reflective surface having first and second sides positioned such that light entering the first input and illuminating the first side is partially reflected through the first output and partially transmitted through the second output and light entering the second input illuminating the second side is partially transmitted though the first output and partially reflected through the second output 

phase adjustment circuitry for adjusting the relative phases of the first and second light beams the phases being adjustable such that when light transmitted through the semi reflective surface from the first input has a phase which cancels light reflected from the semi reflective surface from the second input and light reflected from the semi reflective surface from first input constructively adds to the light transmitted through the semi reflective surface from the second input then light having the combined power of the first and second light beams is emitted through the first output and when light transmitted through the semi reflective surface from the first input has a phase which constructively adds to light reflected from the semi reflective surface from the second input and light reflected from the semi reflective surface from first input destructively interferes with the light transmitted through the semi reflective surface from the second input then light having the combined power of the first and second light beams is emitted through the second output 

whereby depending upon the adjustment of phases of the first and second light beams the power of the light outputted from either the first or second outputs may be controlled.

The power emitted may be the summation of the power of the first and second light beams or fractions thereof. For example one output may be the summation of the powers of the first and second light beams or a fraction thereof and the power of light outputted from the other output may be substantially zero or a fraction thereof. Emission through the first or second output can be selected by varying the phase differential between the first and second light beams without mechanical input . Optionally the device may comprise a plurality of light detectors operatively connected to each output of the beam splitter to measure the power of the light from each of the outputs of the beam splitter. Optionally the phase adjustment circuitry may operate to selectively and individually adjust each output in a range from substantially no light to the summation of the powers of the inputted light beams. Optionally in addition to a plurality of photodetectors feedback circuitry may be operatively connected to the phase adjustment circuitry and the photodetectors such that the measurement detected by the plurality of photodetectors is used to control the phase of the first and second laser beams.

Optionally four beam splitters may be utilized each having first and second inputs a semi reflective surface and first and second outputs. Four light beams may be inputted into the first and second inputs of the first and second beam splitters. In one embodiment the first and second outputs of the first and second beam splitters are operatively connected to the first and second inputs of third and fourth beamsplitters respectively and the first and second outputs of the third and fourth beamsplitters selectively output a laser beam depending upon the phase of the four inputted light beams. Optionally a photodetector may be associated with each output of the beamsplitters to measure the power of the light emitted from the associated output. Optionally each photodetector may be operatively associated with a beam sampler and operatively connected to the phase adjustment circuitry such that the phase adjustment circuitry receives inputs from the plurality of photodetectors. Optionally the phase adjustment circuitry may further comprise a computer and a plurality of phase lock loop circuits each of the phase lock loop circuits and the computer receiving the output of one of the plurality of photodetectors and operating to adjust the phases of the first and second light beams relative to the reference light beam.

inputting at least four laser light beams into first and second beam splitters each of the first and second beam splitters having first and second inputs and first and second outputs 

operatively connecting first and second outputs of the first and second beam splitters to first and second inputs of third and fourth beamsplitters respectively the third and fourth beam splitters each have two outputs 

providing phase adjustment circuitry for varying the relative phase of each of the four laser beams and

by varying the phase of the at least four laser light beams selectively emitting an output beam from one of four outputs of the third and fourth beam splitters which has the combined power of the at least four inputted beams.

Other characteristics and features are described in the following drawings and detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

A more complete appreciation of the invention will be readily obtained by reference to the following Description of the Preferred Embodiments and the accompanying drawings in which like numerals in different figures represent the same structures or elements. The representations in each of the figures are diagrammatic and no attempt is made to indicate actual scales or precise ratios. Proportional relationships are shown as approximates.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those with skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled or operatively connected to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second third fourth etc. may be used herein to describe various elements sections sides or components these elements sections sides or components should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring to first and second sides these terms are only used to distinguish one side from another side. Thus a first element section side or component discussed below could be termed a second third or fourth element section side or component without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

A system designed to make use of coherent beam combining requires the individual laser beams to a be locked in phase and frequency b have a relative phase difference that results in the power being concentrated in a single lobe in the far field or in the focus of a lens c have planar wavefronts and d have a spatially uniform intensity.

Monitoring the relative phase is typically done by interfering the beams with each other or with a reference. The former has the usual disadvantages associated with a homodyne feedback loop. The latter can be done with a heterodyne feedback loop where the reference beam has an offset frequency relative to all the signal beams. The beat signal between the reference beam and each output beam is therefore nominally at the offset frequency. By controlling the phase of each beat signal relative to a local oscillator one can control the relative phases of the various output beams.

As shown in a preferred embodiment assembly comprises two input laser beams X Y two optical phase shifters A B two optical amplifiers A B a 2 2 optical switch two possible output ports or two phase locked loop circuits A B and a computer . The solid lines represent optical beams or fibers. The dashed lines represent electrical signals or wires. The feedback loops L M A B and control the relative phase between the two input laser beams X Y. The system including the optical phase shifters and optical amplifiers comprises two opto electronic feedback loops that allow the output beam to be electronically switched between the two outputs without having the speed and reliability limitations associated with a moving part. The output location containing the combined laser beam is determined by user input to a program running on computer for example.

Referring to using precise control over the relative phase difference two input beams are interferometrically combined into one output beam at either port or . To do this the optical switch shown in makes use of feedback loops which causes the phase locked loop PLL circuits A B to adjust the relative phase difference to maintain coherence between each channel i.e. the two input laser beams A B and a reference beam. The phase locked loop circuits A B may be for example a phase detector or phase comparator comprising a frequency mixer analog multiplier or logic circuit that generates a voltage signal which represents the difference in phase between two signal inputs. The relative phase difference between both channels is not fixed though so another feedback loop may be used to maintain a fixed phase relationship between the two channels. Also a feedback mechanism shown in dotted lines as computer program and dashed lines L M is utilized to prevent the relative phase between the beams from slipping out of coherence with each other. The phase control loop comprises optical phase shifters A B and optical amplifiers A B discussed above. The optical amplifiers may be for example Ytterbium fiber amplifiers. The computer feedback loop is shown in dashed lines comprising computer ports and connecting lines L M. The 2 2 Optical Switch comprises input ports and from the respective channels for Inputs and and a reference beam input port . Output ports and may be selected for outputting the combined laser beam. Feedback ports connect via lines L to a processor or computer which includes a computer program and is connected to the phase locked loop circuits A B via lines M. The 2 2 optical switch further comprises output ports . Port outputs the reference from port plus the input from port . Port outputs the reference from port plus input from port . The outputs from ports are inputted into the phase locked loop circuits A B to maintain coherence between each channel i.e. the two input laser beams A B and a reference beam. The phase locked loop circuits A and B are connected to each of the optical frequency shifters A B to shift the frequency to maintain coherence.

The optical switch may be made mechanically stiff and isolated from sources of vibration in order that the components maintain as well as possible the spacing and alignment necessary to obtain complete constructive and destructive interference at the outputs. The feedback signals from ports and are there to compensate for residual environmental effects that would otherwise degrade the interference.

Referring to Input is partially reflected by a optical sampler or wedge into a photodetector . As an example optical wedges may reflect about 1 to 4 of the light beam. Rather than using a wedge an optical quality thick glass plate tilted to the beam can also be utilized. The light which passes through the sampler or wedge is reflected by mirrors into beam splitter which may be a 50 50 beam splitter. As an alternative the beam splitter may be variable with respect to the transmittance reflectance or accommodate variances between the intensities of input and input . A sampler reflects a portion of the beam directed to output into detector . A sampler directs the portion of the beam directed to output port into photo detector . It can be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that photodetectors and detect the intensity of light for output A and output B respectively passing through the respective ports and .

Referring now to input at port in the incoming laser beam is partially reflected by a wedge into a photodetector . Again the wedge may reflect only approximately one to four percent of the light. The light which passes through the wedge is reflected by mirrors and into beam splitter . The beam splitter may be a 50 50 beam splitter. A sampler or wedge reflects a portion of the beam directed to output port into detector . Another sampler or wedge directs the portion of the beam directed to output port into photo detector . Thus the detector measures the intensity of output B and detector measures the intensity of output A.

Referring now to the reference input at port the reference light illuminates the beam splitter which transmits 50 and reflects 50 of the light. The transmitted portion from beam splitter illuminates the sampler such that the reflected portion of the input and the transmitted portion of the reference is measured by photodetector at port for further output into the phase lock circuitry A which controls the optical phase shifters SA which regulate the phase of the inputted laser beams as shown in . The reflected portion from beam splitter passes through sampler and is detected by photodetector at output port for further output into the phase lock circuitry B.

Beamsplitter divides the reference beam into two approximately equal parts. Beam sampler combines a small portion of input with a portion of the reference for the purpose of interfering on photodiode . Beam sampler combines a small portion of input with a portion of the reference for the purpose of interfering on photodiode . Beamsplitter reflects part of input and transmits part of input allowing the two to interfere to generate output B. Beamsplitter also transmits part of input and reflects part of input allowing the two to interfere to generate output A. Beam sampler directs a small portion of output B to photodiode to measure the power of output B. Beam sampler directs a small portion of output A to photodiode to measure the power of output A.

Referring now which is a diagrammatic explanation of the effect of phase difference control of input and input at the interface of the beam splitter . Input and Input each illuminate the beam splitter . The measurement at photodetector indicates the power due to the interference of the reflected part of input and the transmitted part of Input . The measurement at photodetector indicates the power due to the interference of the transmitted part of Input and the reflected part of Input . If the measurement at photodetector is zero and the measurement at photodetector is non zero there is destructive interference in the direction of Output B and constructive interference in the direction of Output A. As a result a beam having the combined power of input and input will form Output A. Subsequently the operator may change the phase difference between Input and Input such that the measurement at photodetector is non zero and the measurement at photodetector is zero indicating destructive interference in the direction of Output A. As a result a beam having the combined intensity of input and input will form Output B.

The phase is controlled by the outputs from port which are connected as shown in to the phase locked loop circuits A B. Also inputted into phase locked loop circuits A and B are the output of the processor which operates the computer program . The ports on optical switch are inputted into the processor or computer through lines L from which data is extracted to perform an algorithm by computer . Computer Control

The program run by computer is used to control the phase via the electronic feedback loop and can be implemented with for example LabWindows . The program takes input from the user and the switch and sends digital characters to the phase locked loop PLL circuits A B which may be for example via a USB connection. The user selects which port or will contain the output beam. The program digitizes the voltage from photodiodes and and sends the signals to PLL A B to adjust the phases of beams X and Y. The program algorithm operated on by computer uses a dither in combination with the readings from the photodiodes to decide whether or not the relative phase between the two input beams Input or Input should be increased or decreased. After initiating the program the phase is continually probed until a maximum is reached at which point the dither and the input voltage will begin to oscillate. Phase locked loop circuitry A B is configured to receive signals from the connection therefore an increase or decrease in the phase correlates to the computer sending certain signals to phase locked loop circuitry A B. The computer feedback loop is shown in .

High power low divergence lasers have military applications e.g. counter rockets artillery and mortars CRAM and industrial applications e.g. welding.

A preferred embodiment 2 2 optical switch has distinct advantages over single output systems for directed energy applications. An opto electronic switch allows for very fast changing of outputs without the speed limitations associated with mechanical movement. The direct application of a 2 2 optical switch coupled with HEL is for defense against large ballistic threats aimed at manned or unmanned vehicles. In one scenario two 1 kW amplifiers are located in the interior of a helicopter and two delivery fibers lead to conformal exit apertures on the left and right side of the fuselage. The switch would be able to direct 2 kW into the delivery fiber leading to the left side to engage a target in that direction. A short time later the switch could direct 2 kW to engage a target on the right side of the helicopter.

The optical switch could be largely monolithic i.e. made from a single block of material. The rigidity would reduce the impact of external vibrations. The switch would need to be enclosed to eliminate dust and other contaminants that would result in optical damage.

A preferred embodiment 4 4 optical switch is illustrated in . Note that this switch is somewhat monolithic and utilizes the same concepts from the preferred embodiment 2 2 switch of . The preferred embodiment enables coherent combination that can yield a higher intensity smaller spot size in the far field and allows for electronic beam steering. The preferred embodiment of utilizes a coherent technique that allows one to combine the power of multiple amplifiers seeded with a common source or multiple phase locked lasers and direct the output beam to any one of four output ports or tour delivery fibers. No moving parts are required but a means for adjusting the phase of each input beam is required. Typically this is done with an electro optic or acousto optic phase modulator in conjunction with photodiodes that detect the phase via interference.

The preferred embodiment illustrated in comprises four 50 50 beamsplitters each of which may be followed by two beamsamplers and eight light detectors to ascertain the distribution of light inside the switch and light leaving the switch. Alternatively a total of four beam samplers and four detectors could be utilized but the feedback algorithm would be more complicated.

Referring now to input illuminates beam splitter and the reflected portion is sampled by sampler and measured by detector . The transmitted portion is sampled by sampler and measured by detector . The transmitted portion then illuminates beam splitter which reflects a portion in the direction of output which is sampled by sampler and measured by detector and transmits a portion in the direction of output which is sampled by sampler and measured by detector . Input illuminates beam splitter and the reflected portion is sampled by sampler and measured by detector . The transmitted portion is sampled by sampler and measured by detector . The transmitted portion then illuminates beam splitter which reflects a portion in the direction of output which is sampled by sampler and detector and transmits a portion in the direction of output which is sampled by sampler and detector . Input illuminates beam splitter and the reflected portion is sampled by sampler and measured by detector . The transmitted portion is sampled by sampler and measured by detector . The transmitted portion then illuminates beam splitter which reflects a portion in the direction of output which is sampled by sampler and detector and transmits a portion in the direction of output which is sampled by sampler and detector . Input illuminates beam splitter and the reflected portion is sampled by sampler and measured by detector . The transmitted portion is sampled by sampler and measured by detector . The transmitted portion then illuminates beam splitter which reflects a portion in the direction of output which is sampled by sampler and detector and transmits a portion in the direction of output which is sampled by sampler and detector .

Referring again to if only input were present at beam splitter half the power would be reflected and half would be transmitted. The same goes if only input were present. When they are both present and coherent with respect to one another the relative phase will determine whether all of the combined power goes in the direction of beamsampler or all goes in the direction of beamsampler . All other distributions in between are also possible. To ascertain what the distribution is a small portion of the light incident on beamsampler is directed to detector and a small portion of the light incident on beamsampler is directed to detector . In the preferred embodiment the electrical signals from and are sent to a computer. If the switch is to direct the total power to output the computer algorithm will seek to maintain a null signal on detector by adjusting the relative phase between inputs and . By the same token the computer algorithm will seek to maintain a null signal on detector by adjusting the relative phase between inputs and . At this point the total power from all four inputs is propagating toward beamsplitter . To ascertain the distribution of power on the output side of beamsplitter beamsamplers and and photodetectors and are used in the same fashion as above. To direct the total power to output the computer algorithm will seek to maintain a null signal on photodetector by adjusting the average phase of inputs and relative to the average phase of inputs and . It should be clear that by adjusting the phases of the input beams the total power can be directed to any one of the output beams. Similarly an equal amount could be directed to each output or any combination in between by proper adjustment of the phases of the input beams.

The interaction of the input beams is explained diagrammatically in . Referring now to photodetector measures the part of input that is reflected by beamsplitter and the part of input that is transmitted by beamsplitter . Photodetector measures the part of input that is transmitted by beamsplitter and the part of input that is reflected by beamsplitter . If the signal from photodetector is non zero and the signal from photodetector is zero there is constructive interference in the direction of beamsampler and destructive interference in the direction of beamsampler and the total power of input and propagates in the direction of Beamsampler . Conversely if the signal from photodetector is zero and the signal from photodetector is non zero there is constructive interference in the direction of beamsampler and destructive interference in the direction of beamsampler and the total power of inputs and propagates in the direction of beamsampler .

Assuming the signal from detector is non zero the light then illuminates beamsplitter . Photodetector measures the portion of the beam coming from point Z in that is reflected by beamsplitter and the transmitted portion from point ZZ that is transmitted by beamsplitter . Photodetector measures the part of the beam from Point Z in and the reflected portion of the beam from Point ZZ that is reflected by beamsplitter . If the signal from photodetector is zero and the signal from photodetector is non zero there is destructive interference in the direction of beamsampler and constructive interference in the direction of beamsampler . If the measurement at photodetector is zero there is destructive interference in that direction and the total power propagates in the direction of beamsampler .

Referring now to which is centered on beam splitter photodetector measures the part of Input that is reflected by beamsplitter and the part of input that is transmitted by beamsplitter . Photodetector measures the part of Input that is reflected by beamsplitter and the part of input that is reflected by beamsplitter . If the signal from photodetector is zero and the signal from photodetector is non zero there is destructive interference in the direction of beamsampler and constructive interference in the direction of beamsampler and the total power from Input and propagates in the direction of beamsampler and point ZZ. Note that the beam formed by constructive interference continues on to which can be visualized by connecting the Points ZZ. If the measurement at photodetector is zero there is destructive interference in that direction and the total power from Input and propagates in the direction of beamsampler . It is noted that by selecting the phases of the inputted beams such that constructive interference occurs as outlined in the net result is that Output will be the combination of four inputs i.e. Inputs and .

From a phase perspective if Output is the desired channel for the combination of the four beams the following should take place 1 the relative phases of Input and Input i.e. should be adjusted to either maximize the power on or minimize the power on detector 2 should be adjusted to maximize detector or minimize detector 3 the difference between average phase of inputs and and average phase of inputs and should be adjusted to maximize detector or minimize detector .

As with all varieties of coherent beam combination the efficiency of the device will depend on the extent to which the four inputs have parallel polarizations are diffraction limited i.e plane waves and matched in power. If the input beams originate from fiber amplifiers they need to be collimated with high quality lenses. There are also difficulties in stabilizing about a null or a maximum with a homodyne phase locking circuit. Typically the latter are overcome using a dithering technique or a hill climbing algorithm or by going to a heterodyne technique. All these techniques are possible with this apparatus. In addition it can function with a chirped beam to suppress stimulated Brillouin scattering in high power fiber amplifiers.

Beamsamplers output . output output and output sample the output ports and are connected as shown in . The outputs of beamsamplers through are shown by dashed lines in at the feedback ports of the 4 4 Optical Switch A that are connected via lines L to a processor or computer which includes a computer program and is connected to the phase locked loop circuits A D via lines M. The 4 4 optical switch A further comprises ports which output on four separate lines the reference plus the input the reference plus the input the reference plus the input and the reference plus the input . These outputs are inputted into the phase locked loop circuits PLL A D to maintain coherence between each channel i.e. the four input laser beams and a reference beam. The phase locked loop circuits A D are connected to each of the optical phase shifters A D to maintain coherence.

As used herein the terminology phase locked loop or phase lock loop PLL refers to a control system subsystem or circuit that outputs a signal having a phase related to the phase of the inputted signal. The circuit may comprise a variable frequency oscillator which generates a periodic signal and a phase detector that compares the phases of the signal with the phase of the input periodic signal and adjusts the oscillator to match the phases. A feedback loop may be formed by returning the output signal back to the input signal for comparison.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention many be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

