---

title: Network-based consumer transactions with credit accounts
abstract: A computer-implemented method and system is operable to: receive a purchase transaction from a purchaser, the purchase transaction including purchase transaction information including a purchaser credit number associated with a purchaser credit account previously established on a payment site, use the purchaser credit number to obtain associated purchaser credit account information maintained at a payment site, receive from the payment site a disposition of the purchase transaction, and receive from the payment site purchaser-specific information to streamline the purchase transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898082&OS=08898082&RS=08898082
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08898082
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131018
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 603 476 filed Nov. 22 2006 which application is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.

This disclosure relates to methods and systems supporting online consumer transactions by a user. More particularly the present disclosure relates to network based consumer transactions with credit accounts.

Conventional network based marketplaces e.g. consumer websites provide users with functionality to browse a collection of goods or services at a website and make purchases using a variety of means. For example conventional credit cards can be used for an online purchase. In this case the user enters the credit card number into a data field on a web form provided by a merchant or third party website. Conventional debit cards can be similarly used. Using these conventional financial systems and processes on the Web users can shop and make purchases of goods or services over the Internet. Unfortunately however the user purchaser s credit or debit card numbers become vulnerable to discovery and misuse once the card numbers are entered into a web form. Further the credit card companies charge a fee for processing the credit transaction.

The PayPal system is also a popular example of a conventional financial system and process to facilitate online consumer transactions. The PayPal system provides a user account created for each user wherein a user associates his her credit card debit card or bank account with the PayPal account. Subsequently the user can make secure purchases using the PayPal account without revealing his her credit card number or financial information. However when a user makes a purchase at a merchant site the user must separately log in to the PayPal site to gain access to their PayPal account in order to complete the consumer transaction at the merchant site. This separate log in process can be cumbersome and slow for the consumer.

Thus a system and method supporting network based consumer transactions with credit accounts are needed.

A computer implemented system and method supporting network based consumer transactions with credit accounts are disclosed. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known processes structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the clarity of this description.

As described further below according to various example embodiments of the disclosed subject matter described and claimed herein there is provided a system and method supporting network based consumer transactions with credit accounts. The system includes a payment processor to recognize a unique credit number and automatically initiate communication with a payment site to request authorization and payment from the payment site for an online transaction. Various embodiments are described below in connection with the figures provided herein.

Referring to a conventional credit card transaction between a purchaser and a merchant is illustrated. Initially a merchant account is required to accept credit cards e.g. Visa MasterCard . A merchant account is a special account with a bank that is a member of the Visa and MasterCard associations. Such a bank has been certified by Visa and MasterCard associations and can provide the merchant with all of the services related to the merchant account and related credit card transactions. Once the merchant account is set up and live on the credit card system the merchant can accept credit cards from customers generally as follows 

Referring now to a sequence of operations related to a user purchase transaction is illustrated. In this example the purchaser uses credit maintained by a payment site such as PayPal. In a first event a purchaser initiates a purchase transaction with a merchant site using credit provided by the payment site . In this embodiment purchaser uses a credit account previously established on payment site . When the purchaser initiates the purchase with payment site credit the merchant site advises the purchaser to log into the payment site to authorize payment.

In order to use the payment site credit account and to authorize payment from this account purchaser logs into payment site to access the purchaser account. Upon purchaser login at payment site payment site attempts to access e.g. by searching for a cookie or data object that may have previously been deposited on the system of purchaser by payment site . Typically when the purchaser initially accesses the payment site and opens a credit account with the payment site in a prior log in session the payment site will generate a cookie with user specific information and transfer this cookie to the purchaser system using well known techniques. If the cookie is not found on the purchaser system the purchaser may have to provide additional information to validate the identity and authorization of the purchaser to access the payment site credit account. If the cookie is found the cookie is examined to determine if the purchaser who initiated the purchase transaction with the merchant site is authorized to access the payment site credit account and to withdraw funds therefrom. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many other well known techniques can be used to validate the identity and authorization of the purchaser . Once the identity and authorization of the purchaser is verified the purchaser can approve payment from the purchaser credit account with the payment site . As part of the purchase transaction the merchant site requests payment from the purchaser account for the purchase transaction. If the verified purchaser approves payment from the purchaser credit account the payment site can transfer funds from the purchaser to the merchant site account in response to the merchant site request for payment. Once this funds transfer is completed or authorized the payment site can provide confirmation of the payment to the merchant site . The merchant site can subsequently complete the purchase transaction with the purchaser .

According to various embodiments described below and illustrated in a payment site operates in concert with a payment processor to recognize a unique credit number and automatically initiate communication with the payment site to request authorization and payment for an online transaction from a purchaser credit account maintained at or by the payment site .

As shown in a purchaser can initially set up a purchaser credit account with the payment site . The purchaser can configure preferences for the purchaser account including security payment merchant shipping notification account statements and the like. The purchaser can also log in after a transaction or payment event is completed to manage the purchaser account and or related payments. As part of creating and configuring the purchaser credit account the purchaser can define a unique credit number associated with the purchaser credit account on payment site . The unique credit number can be any unique combination of letters numbers or symbols denoted the credit number herein that is different from existing credit card numbers. A unique block of numbers letters or symbols can be determined given the standardization in traditional credit card numbering methods. The unique block of numbers letters or symbols can be defined to include a marker symbol that identifies each unique credit number as belonging to the unique block of numbers letters or symbols being used by the payment site for credit numbers. For example a leading digit of known value e.g. 9 can provide the marker symbol. The credit number can be of a fixed number of digits positions or a variable number of digits positions as long as the resulting credit number is unique. The credit number can be defined by the purchaser when the purchaser credit account is created set up or the credit number can be specified or suggested by the payment site . The unique credit number associates a particular purchaser with a corresponding credit account on payment site . The purchaser provides the credit number to a merchant when a purchase transaction is initiated by the purchaser . Once the purchaser selects or is assigned a credit number the credit number is retained by the payment site and associated with the purchaser credit account. By creating unique credit numbers associated with corresponding credit accounts the purchaser can control the set of merchants enabled for access to the purchaser credit accounts and the purchaser can control the authorization process the merchant must use to gain access to a purchaser credit account. Further the purchaser can readily change the access privileges and access process for particular merchants by accessing the purchaser credit account on the payment site .

As an additional security feature the purchaser can also create or modify a Credit Verification Value CVV associated with the purchaser credit account. The CVV is similar to the traditional CVV2 number associated with a conventional credit card except the CVV of various embodiments can be readily changed by the purchaser at any time by accessing the purchaser credit account on the payment site . In contrast conventional CVV2 numbers on conventional credit cards are fixed at the time the credit card is created. In the various embodiments described herein the CVV can be an arbitrary series of letters numbers or symbols of fixed or variable length that is defined by the purchaser and retained by the payment site with the purchaser credit account. As stated earlier the CVV can be changed by the purchaser at any time by accessing the purchaser credit account on the payment site . Once the purchaser selects or changes a CVV the CVV is retained by the payment site and associated with the purchaser credit account.

As shown in a merchant represented by the merchant site can initially set up a merchant account with the payment site . The merchant can configure preferences for the merchant account including security receivables notification account statements and the like. The merchant can also log in after the completion of a transaction to manage the merchant account and or related receivables. The merchant can specify the manner in which payment is made into the merchant account and the frequency and time when account statements are generated. As part of the creation and configuration of the merchant account the merchant site is associated with a payment processor . Payment processor can be implemented as a software component that can be downloaded into the merchant site configured for use with the merchant site but resident in the payment site or configured for use with the merchant site but resident at a third party site. illustrates the payment processor as resident at the merchant site . illustrates the payment processor as resident at a third party site. In any of these configurations the payment processor receives or is forwarded from a merchant site a purchaser purchase request. As illustrated in a payment site credit number is provided by the purchaser to the payment processor . As described above the purchaser credit number is uniquely associated with the purchaser s account that was previously set up on payment site . As an optional security measure the purchaser can also create or modify a Credit Verification Value CVV associated with the purchaser credit account as described above.

Referring to after the purchaser credit account and the merchant account associated with the merchant site has been set up with the payment site as described above the purchaser can initiate a purchase transaction with the merchant site using the purchaser credit account. illustrates an example embodiment in which a payment site operates in concert with a payment processor to recognize a unique credit number and optionally a related CVV and automatically initiate communication with the payment site to request authorization and payment for an online transaction from a purchaser credit account maintained at or by the payment site . In an initial action the purchaser initiates a purchase transaction at the merchant site by providing the purchaser s unique credit number to the merchant site . The merchant site is pre configured to receive such purchase transactions through the payment processor . illustrates an embodiment in which the payment processor is integral to the merchant site as either a downloaded software component or a service running on a server directly coupled to a merchant site server. An alternative embodiment is illustrated in wherein the payment processor is loosely coupled to the merchant site either through an indirect connection to a merchant site server or coupled to the merchant site via a secure network connection. In any of these equivalent connections payment processor handles the receipt of the purchase transaction from a purchaser and performs the pre processing of the transaction prior to forwarding the purchase transaction to the payment site . By virtue of the unique credit number provided by the purchaser the payment processor can determine that the purchase transaction is a request by the purchaser to transfer funds from a purchaser credit account previously established on the payment site by the purchaser . In this manner the payment processor can automatically associate the unique credit number provided by the purchaser with a purchaser credit account previously established on the payment site . Once the payment processor recognizes the unique credit number as a payment site account number the payment processor communicates with payment site to request authorization to transfer funds from the purchaser credit account to the merchant account associated with the merchant site which was also previously established on the payment site . As an additional level of identity verification in an alternative embodiment the payment processor can also request the purchaser to provide the CVV that is associated with the purchaser credit account previously established on the payment site . The payment processor can forward the CVV to the payment site as part of the purchase transaction. Using the purchaser information provided with the purchase transaction the credit number and optionally the CVV the payment site can authorize or decline the transfer of funds from the purchaser credit account to the merchant account. The purchaser information provided with the purchase transaction can include the purchaser name address date of birth and other purchaser proprietary information sufficient to establish proof of the purchaser s identity. In other embodiments varying levels of purchaser proprietary information or other identity information can be requested to verify identity. For example other embodiments may require a digital certificate password or public key as an additional level of identity proof. In other embodiments the level of identity proof required may be varied based on the amount of the transaction the location of the purchaser or the requirements of the specific merchant associated with merchant site .

Once the payment site processes the purchase transaction provided by the payment processor the payment site can authorize or decline the transfer of funds from the purchaser credit account to the merchant account. If the purchase transaction is approved the payment site provides confirmation of payment from the purchaser credit account to a merchant account associated with merchant site . Optionally the payment site can also provide additional purchaser information to the merchant site e.g. purchaser preferred shipping information etc. . The payment site can use the purchaser credit account and the information previously provided by purchaser to streamline the purchase transaction with pre defined purchaser preferences. Similarly the payment site can use the merchant site account and the information previously provided by merchant to streamline the purchase transaction with pre defined merchant preferences e.g. wire transfer of funds to another account etc. . Once the merchant site receives confirmation of the transfer of funds to the merchant account the merchant can inform the purchaser and complete the purchase transaction. If the purchase transaction is not approved by the payment site the payment site provides notice to the merchant site which so notifies the purchaser .

Referring to an alternative embodiment is shown wherein the payment processor is loosely coupled to the merchant site either through an indirect connection to a merchant site server or coupled to the merchant site via a secure network connection. In this equivalent embodiment as described above the payment processor handles the receipt of the purchase transaction from a purchaser via merchant site and performs the pre processing of the transaction prior to forwarding the purchase transaction to the payment site . In other respects the purchaser purchase transaction is processed as described above.

Referring now to a diagram illustrates a network environment in which various example embodiments may operate. In this conventional network architecture a server computer system is coupled to a wide area network . Wide area network includes the Internet or other proprietary networks which are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Wide area network may include conventional network backbones long haul telephone lines Internet service providers various levels of network routers and other conventional means for routing data between computers. Using conventional network protocols server may communicate through wide area network to a plurality of client computer systems connected through wide area network in various ways. For example client is connected directly to wide area network through direct or dial up telephone or other network transmission line. Alternatively clients may be connected through wide area network using a modem pool . A conventional modem pool allows a plurality of client systems to connect with a smaller set of modems in modem pool for connection through wide area network . In another alternative network topology wide area network is connected to a gateway computer . Gateway computer is used to route data to clients through a local area network LAN . In this manner clients can communicate with each other through local area network or with server through gateway and wide area network .

Using one of a variety of network connection means server computer can communicate with client computers using conventional means. In a particular implementation of this network configuration a server computer may operate as a web server if the Internet s World Wide Web WWW is used for wide area network . Using the HTTP protocol and the HTML coding language across wide area network web server may communicate across the World Wide Web with clients . In this configuration clients use a client application program known as a web browser such as the Internet Explorer published by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the user interface of America On Line or the web browser or HTML renderer of any other supplier. Using such conventional browsers and the World Wide Web clients may access image graphical and textual data provided by web server or they may run Web application software. Conventional means exist by which clients may supply information to web server through the World Wide Web and the web server may return processed data to clients .

Having briefly described one embodiment of the network environment in which an example embodiment may operate show an example of a computer system illustrating an exemplary client or server computer system in which the features of an example embodiment may be implemented. Computer system is comprised of a bus or other communications means and for communicating information and a processing means such as processor coupled with bus for processing information. Computer system further comprises a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device commonly referred to as main memory coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor . Computer system also comprises a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

An optional data storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk and its corresponding drive may also be coupled to computer system for storing information and instructions. Computer system can also be coupled via bus to a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for displaying information to a computer user. For example image textual video or graphical depictions of information may be presented to the user on display device . Typically an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and or command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control device such as a conventional mouse trackball or other type of cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selection to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display .

Alternatively the client can be implemented as a network computer or thin client device. Client may also be a laptop or palm top computing device such as the Palm Pilot . Client could also be implemented in a robust cellular telephone where such devices are currently being used with Internet micro browsers. Such a network computer or thin client device does not necessarily include all of the devices and features of the above described exemplary computer system however the functionality of an example embodiment or a subset thereof may nevertheless be implemented with such devices.

A communication device is also coupled to bus for accessing remote computers or servers such as web server or other servers via the Internet for example. The communication device may include a modem a network interface card or other well known interface devices such as those used for interfacing with Ethernet Token ring or other types of networks. In any event in this manner the computer system may be coupled to a number of servers via a conventional network infrastructure such as the infrastructure illustrated in and described above.

The system of an example embodiment includes software information processing hardware and various processing steps which will be described below. The features and process steps of example embodiments may be embodied in articles of manufacture as machine or computer executable instructions. The instructions can be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor which is programmed with the instructions to perform the steps of an example embodiment. Alternatively the features or steps may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hard wired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components. While embodiments are described with reference to the Internet the method and apparatus described herein is equally applicable to other network infrastructures or other data communications systems.

Various embodiments are described herein. In particular the use of embodiments with various types and formats of user interface presentations and or application programming interfaces may be described. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that alternative embodiments of the implementations described herein can be employed and still fall within the scope of the claimed invention. In the detail herein various embodiments are described as implemented in computer implemented processing logic denoted sometimes herein as the Software . As described above however the claimed invention is not limited to a purely software implementation.

Thus a computer implemented method and system for correlating advertisement click events with purchase events are disclosed. While the present invention has been described in terms of several example embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The description herein is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

