---

title: Gesture based human computer interaction
abstract: Apparatus, computer-readable storage medium, and method associated with human computer interaction. In embodiments, a computing device may include a plurality of sensors, including a plurality of light sources and a camera, to create a three dimensional (3-D) interaction region within which to track individual finger positions of a user of the computing device. The light sources and the camera may be complementarily disposed for the camera to capture the finger or hand positions. The computing device may further include a 3-D interaction module configured to analyze the individual finger positions within the 3-D interaction region, the individual finger movements captured by the camera, to detect a gesture based on a result of the analysis, and to execute a user control action corresponding to the gesture detected. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09304597&OS=09304597&RS=09304597
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09304597
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131029
---
The present application is a national phase entry under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2013 067323 filed Oct. 29 2013 entitled GESTURE BASED HUMAN COMPUTER INTERACTION which designated among the various States the United States of America. The Specification of the PCT US2013 067323 Application is hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are related to the field of human computer interaction and in particular to gesture based human computer interaction.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Human computer interactions have traditionally been relegated to user control via physical interaction of a user with one or more input devices such as a mouse a keyboard a track ball a touch pad and so forth. The mouse et al have essentially become the sine qua non of human computer interaction. While a user s interaction with a mouse et al may have become somewhat ingrained with users the interaction has never been natural or intuitive.

A method storage medium and computing device for human computer interaction are described. In embodiments the computing device may include a plurality of sensors including a plurality of light sources and a camera to create a three dimensional 3 D interaction region within which to track individual finger positions of a user of the computing device and thereby track finger movements. The light sources and the camera may be complementarily disposed for the camera to capture the finger or hand positions. An example of a 3D region may include a 3D region in front of a display screen. The computing device may also include a 3 D interaction module coupled with the plurality of sensors. The 3 D interaction module may be configured to analyze the individual fingers within the 3 D interaction region captured by the camera to detect a gesture based on a result of the analysis. Gestures may include e.g. holding an individual finger in a fixed location for a pre determined period of time within the 3 D interaction region. On detection of the gesture the 3 D interaction module may execute a user control action corresponding to the gesture detected. For the example of holding of an individual finger the user control action may be executed at the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display screen. In embodiments the display screen may be a floating display screen projected to coincide or intersect with the 3D interaction region.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout and in which is shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete actions or operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations may not be performed in the order of presentation. Operations described may be performed in a different order than the described embodiment. Various additional operations may be performed and or described operations may be omitted in additional embodiments.

For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A B and or C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present disclosure are synonymous.

The intersection of the viewing angle of camera and the light emitted by the one or more light emitting diodes may create a three dimensional 3 D interaction region within which a user may utilize one or more gestures to interact with computing device . This may be accomplished by tracking finger and or hand positions and thereby tracking finger and or hand movements of the user in the 3 D interaction region . The combination of camera and the one or more light emitting diodes may enable fast and accurate tracking of the user gestures within the 3 D interaction region. In embodiments the light emitted by the one or more light emitting diodes may be configured to accentuate or highlight gestures occurring within the 3 D interaction region and therefore may make it easier for computing device to interpret the gestures captured by camera . For example where a gesture is based upon a user s finger movements the tips of the fingers may be tracked quickly and precisely due to the accentuation of the finger tips by the light emitted from the one or more light emitting diodes . The accentuation of the finger tips may be effected by light emitted by light emitting diodes scattered by the finger tips within the interaction region and detected by camera .

In embodiments computing device may be configured to correlate actions of the user such as positions of the user s fingertips with a corresponding location of a positional indicator such as a cursor on a display of computing device . In such an embodiment a user may be able to move a cursor rendered on display to a desired location near a desired object on display and perform a gesture which may cause computing device to carry out a user control action on the object.

Computing device may comprise processor s display sensors storage containing 3 D interaction module and other input output I O devices . Processor s display sensors storage and other input output I O devices may all be coupled together utilizing system bus .

Processor s may be comprised of a single processor or multiple processors. In multiple processor embodiments the multiple processors may be of the same type i.e. homogeneous or may be of differing types i.e. heterogeneous and may include any type of single or multi core processors. This disclosure is equally applicable regardless of type and or number of processors.

Display may be any type of display including but not limited to a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal diode LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED or a 3 D display such as that discussed in . Display may be incorporated into computing device or may be peripherally connected to computing device through any type of wired and or wireless connection. This disclosure is equally applicable regardless of the type of display.

Sensors may include in some embodiments sensors such as a camera configured to capture one or more images and one or more light emitting diodes. These sensors may configure computing device with a 3 D interaction region within which a user of computing device may interact with computing device . It will be appreciated that the sensors mentioned above are merely examples that are meant to be illustrative. Any 3 D sensors capable of capturing a user s gestures are contemplated.

In embodiments storage may be any type of computer readable storage medium or any combination of differing types of computer readable storage media. Storage may include volatile and non volatile persistent storage. Volatile storage may include e.g. dynamic random access memory DRAM . Non volatile persistent storage may include but is not limited to a solid state drive SSD a magnetic or optical disk hard drive flash memory or any multiple or combination thereof.

In embodiments 3 D interaction module may be implemented as software firmware or any combination thereof. In some embodiments 3 D interaction module may comprise one or more instructions that when executed by processor s cause computing device to perform one or more operations of any process described herein. In embodiments 3 D interaction module may be configured to receive data from sensors . In some embodiments 3 D interaction module may be configured to monitor a stream of data produced by sensors . In other embodiments 3 D interaction module may be configured to periodically receive portions of data from sensors for analysis.

In embodiments 3 D interaction module may be configured to analyze the data received from sensors . In some embodiments the data may be analyzed to determine a location of a user s hand s and or finger s within a 3 D interaction region created by the sensors. The 3 D interaction module may be configured to correlate the determined location with a position of a cursor or other positional indicator rendered on display . In embodiments this correlation may occur in real time such that the movements of a user are contemporaneously reflected by movement of the cursor rendered on display .

In some embodiments the data may be analyzed to determine if a pre determined gesture occurs within the sensor data such as those gestures described in reference to . This may be accomplished for example by determining coordinate movements within the data or comparing one or more images captured by one or more of the sensors with a database of images of gestures.

In embodiments 3 D interaction module may be configured to determine vital statistics of a user. This may be accomplished as discussed in reference to below. In embodiments the 3 D interaction module may be configured to provide these vital statistics to other applications executing on computing device . For example if a user is involved in playing a video game the video game may be configured to receive a vital statistics from the 3 D interaction module and may adjust the difficulty of the game accordingly. In other embodiments the vital statistics may be utilized to determine if a user is using the user s hands and or fingers to interact with the computing device or an inanimate object such as a stylus. For example 3 D interaction module may be configured to determine if the object s within the 3 D interaction region have a pulse rate and if so then 3 D interaction module may determine that a user s finger s and or hand s are in the 3 D interaction region. In such embodiments the 3 D interaction module may be configured to only attempt to determine gestures when a heart rate is detected. In other embodiments the 3 D interaction module may be configured to enable other contexts when a heart rate is not detected. For example the 3 D interaction module may enable additional drawing features when a stylus is detected or may enable different tools depending upon whether a stylus or finger is detected. For example in a drawing application a user may utilize the stylus to draw and a finger to erase.

In some embodiments floating display may be a stereoscopic or auto stereoscopic 3 D display. As used herein auto stereoscopic 3 D display refers to any display capable of being perceived by a user as 3 D without the use of additional viewing aids such as glasses. An auto stereoscopic display may be achieved through utilization of a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD in conjunction with a parallax barrier or a lenticular array. In some embodiments computing device may be configured to track the location and or direction of a user s eyes utilizing camera and may be configured to adjust floating display accordingly.

Interacting with a floating display via 3 D interaction region may be beneficial in a number of ways. Because a user would not be touching any surfaces directly to interact with computing device this implementation may reduce drawbacks associated with direct physical contact that may impact a more traditional interactive display. For example such an implementation may prevent smudging of a physical display of computing device . This may reduce the number of times such a physical display would need to be cleaned in addition to improving security because a nefarious user would not be able to discern a previous user s password pin from smudges on the screen. Such an implementation may reduce or prevent the spread of germs from one user to the next. A user may also be able to wear gloves to interact with computing device which may not be possible with a traditional interactive display. In addition such an implementation may reduce wear tear and or scratching caused through contact with a user. It will be appreciated that this list of benefits is not exhaustive and is merely meant to be illustrative. Any number of other benefits may be realized through such an implementation.

In embodiments the exact location intensity and size of the finger may be taken into account when attempting to measure PPG. This added information may allow for non invasive in situ PPG measurements. In some embodiments the computing device may be further configured to utilize a controlled strobing light source such as an infra red IR light emitting diode LED with a temporally synchronized global shutter camera. The combination of the IR LED and the global shutter camera may increase signal to noise ratio and may also act to reduce or prevent interference of computing device display illumination changes and or ambient lighting changes with the PPG measurement. In some embodiments the IR LED may be configured to emit light having a wave length of approximately 950 nanometers nm .

In some embodiments a user s blood pressure may be able to be determined. In such embodiments a user may place the user s wrist into a 3 D interaction region such as that described above. One or more sensors such as a camera may be configured to capture images of the veins and the 3 D interaction module may be configured to determine a pulse transit time PTT of blood flow through the user s veins. PTT is inversely proportional to blood pressure and may therefore be utilized to determine a user s blood pressure.

In other embodiments 3 D interaction module may be configured to track the user s vital statistics utilizing LEDs at multiple wavelengths to determine blood oxygenation. For example one or more sensors may correspond with an IR LED at a 950 nm wavelength while one or more other sensors may correspond with a red LED at a 650 nm wave length. The 3 D interaction module may be configured to determine a difference in reflectance transmittance and or absorption between the IR and Red wavelengths to determine the blood oxygenation of the user without the need for a traditional finger clasp oxygenation meter.

In embodiments the sensor data may include coordinates associated with objects being monitored by the sensors. For example the sensor data may contain coordinate information for fingertips detected within a 3 D interaction region such as that discussed above in reference to . In some embodiments sensor data may include a number of images captured by a sensor such as a camera to be analyzed. The above discussed sensor data is merely meant to be illustrative and is not meant to be limiting of this disclosure. It will be appreciated that any type of sensor data may be utilized without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

In block the sensor data may be analyzed to determine if a user of the computing device has performed a pre determined gesture. This may be accomplished by analyzing coordinates passed in to 3 D interaction module to determine if a sequence of coordinates matches a pre determined pattern of coordinates. In some embodiments where images may be provided to 3 D interaction module the images may be compared against pre determined images of gestures to determine whether the image provided by the sensor matches a pre determined image of a gesture.

As used herein a gesture may include any type of finger and or hand movement of the user. Illustrative gestures are discussed above in relation to . However it will be appreciated that the gesture may be any type of gesture and any such gesture is expressly contemplated by this disclosure.

In some embodiments analyzing the sensor data may include analyzing individual finger movements performed within the 3 D interaction region. In some embodiments a location within the 3 D interaction region may be determined and this location may be correlated with a corresponding position of a cursor on display of the computing device.

At block a determination is made as to whether or not a gesture has been detected in the sensor data. If a gesture has not been detected then the process proceeds back to block . If a gesture has been detected then the process moves to block where a user control action corresponding to the detected gesture may be executed. As used herein a user control action may be any type of action a user could undertake with input devices of the computing device. Example input devices may include a keyboard mouse track ball touch pad etc. While discussed in the examples given above in reference to mouse clicks the user control actions should not be so limited. User control actions may include for example scrolling within a window minimizing maximizing or closing a window zooming in or zooming out on an object rendered on the screen a right or left mouse click copying pasting etc.

For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable storage medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Embodiments of the disclosure can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In various embodiments software may include but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and the like. Furthermore the disclosure can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent implementations may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the disclosure. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that the embodiments of the disclosure be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

Example 1 is a computing device for human computer interaction comprising a plurality of sensors including a plurality of light sources and a camera to create a three dimensional 3 D interaction region within which to track individual finger positions of a user of the computing device wherein the plurality of light sources and the camera are complementarily disposed to enable the camera to capture the individual finger positions in three dimensions and a 3 D interaction module coupled with the plurality of sensors the 3 D interaction module to analyze the individual finger positions in relation to one another within the 3 D interaction region captured by the camera to detect a gesture based on a result of the analysis and to execute a user control action corresponding to the gesture detected.

Example 2 may include the subject matter of Example 1 further comprising a display coupled with the 3 D interaction module wherein the 3 D interaction module is to further determine a location of the individual fingers within the 3 D interaction region and to correlate the location of the individual fingers within the 3 D interaction region with a location of a cursor rendered on the display.

Example 3 may include the subject matter of Example 2 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding an individual finger of a hand extending beyond remaining fingers of the hand in a fixed location for a pre determined period of time within the 3 D interaction region and wherein the 3 D interaction module is to execute a user control action at the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 4 may include the subject matter of Example 2 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding an individual finger of a hand extending beyond remaining fingers of the hand in a fixed position within the 3 D interaction region for a first pre determined period of time to cause the correlated location of the cursor to freeze for a second pre determined period of time and the gesture detected further comprises a forward or downward movement of a tip of the individual finger within the second pre determined period of time and wherein the 3 D interaction module is to execute a user control action at the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 5 may include the subject matter of Example 2 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding a first finger of the individual fingers in a fixed location within the 3 D interaction region and bringing a second finger of the individual fingers into contact with the first finger and wherein the 3 D interaction module is to execute a user control action at the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 6 may include the subject matter of Example 2 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding a first finger of the individual fingers in a fixed location and wherein the gesture detected further comprises bringing a second finger to the right of the first finger into contact with the first finger and wherein the 3 D interaction module is to execute a user control action at the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 7 may include the subject matter of Example 2 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding a first finger of the individual fingers in a fixed location and wherein the gesture detected further comprises bringing a second finger to the left of the first finger into contact with the first finger and wherein the 3 D interaction module is to execute a user control action at the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 8 may include the subject matter of Example 2 wherein the gesture detected comprises swirling an individual finger of a hand extending beyond remaining fingers of the hand in a clockwise or counter clockwise direction and wherein the 3 D interaction module is to execute a pre determined user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display based on the direction of the swirling of the individual finger.

Example 9 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 8 wherein the user control action is one of a left or right mouse click.

Example 10 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 2 8 wherein the plurality of sensors and the 3 D interaction module are to further cooperate to detect one of heart rate blood pressure or blood oxygenation of the user within the 3 D interaction region.

Example 11 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 2 8 wherein the plurality of sensors and the 3 D interaction module are to cooperate to detect heart rate of the user and the 3 D interaction module is to further perform the analysis detection of finger movements and execution only when presence of the heart rate of the user is detected within the 3 D interaction region.

Example 12 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 2 8 wherein the display is a floating display projected near or intersecting with the 3 D interaction region and the plurality of light sources are light emitting diodes LEDs and wherein to be complementarily disposed further comprises disposition of the LEDs such that light from the LEDs intersects a viewing angle of the camera where the intersection between the light and the viewing angle creates the 3 D interaction region.

Example 13 is a computer implemented method for human computer interaction comprising analyzing by a three dimensional 3 D interaction module of a computing device sensor data associated with individual finger positions of a user of the computing device within a 3 D interaction region sensed by a plurality of sensors of the computing device that include a plurality of light sources and a camera wherein the plurality of light sources and the camera are complementarily disposed for the camera to capture the individual finger positions in three dimensions detecting by the 3 D interaction module a gesture of the user based at least in part on a result of the analysis and executing by the 3 D interaction module a user control action corresponding to the gesture detected to control the computing device.

Example 14 may include the subject matter of Example 13 further comprising analyzing the individual finger movements to detect a mouse click gesture based on the individual finger movements and executing a mouse click in response to detection of the mouse click gesture.

Example 15 may include the subject matter of Example 13 further comprising determining a location of the individual fingers within the 3 D interaction region and correlating the location of the individual fingers within the 3 D interaction region with a location of a cursor rendered on a display of the computing device.

Example 16 may include the subject matter of Example 15 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding an individual finger of a hand extending beyond remaining fingers of the hand in a fixed location for a pre determined period of time within the 3 D interaction region.

Example 17 may include the subject matter of Example 15 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding an individual finger of a hand extending beyond remaining fingers of the hand in a fixed position within the 3 D interaction region for a first pre determined period of time to cause the correlated location of the cursor to freeze for a second pre determined period of time and the gesture detected further comprises a forward or downward movement of a tip of the individual finger within the second pre determined period of time and wherein executing further comprises executing a user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 18 may include the subject matter of Example 15 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding a first finger of the individual fingers in a fixed location within the 3 D interaction region and bringing a second finger of the individual fingers into contact with the first finger and wherein executing further comprises executing a user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 19 may include the subject matter of Example 15 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding a first finger of the individual fingers in a fixed location and wherein the gesture detected further comprises bringing a second finger to the right of the first finger into contact with the first finger and wherein executing further comprises executing a user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 20 may include the subject matter of Example 15 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding a first finger of the individual fingers in a fixed location and wherein the gesture detected further comprises bringing a second finger to the left of the first finger into contact with the first finger and wherein executing further comprises executing a user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 21 may include the subject matter of Example 15 wherein the gesture detected comprises swirling an individual finger of a hand extending beyond remaining fingers of the hand in a clockwise or counter clockwise direction and wherein executing further comprises executing a user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display the user control action based on the direction of the swirling of the individual finger.

Example 22 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 13 21 wherein the user control action is a mouse click of an item proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 23 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 13 21 wherein the 3 D interaction region coincides or intersects with a floating display.

Example 24 is one or more computer readable media having instructions stored thereon which when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform the method of any one of Examples 13 23.

Example 25 is a computing apparatus for human computer interaction comprising means for performing the method of any one of Examples 13 23.

Example 26 is a computing device for human computer interaction comprising means for analyzing by a three dimensional 3 D interaction module of a computing device sensor data associated with individual finger positions of a user of the computing device within a 3 D interaction region sensed by a plurality of sensors of the computing device that include a plurality of light sources and a camera wherein the plurality of light sources and the camera are complementarily disposed for the camera to capture the individual finger positions in three dimensions means for detecting by the 3 D interaction module a gesture of the user based at least in part on a result of the analysis and means for executing by the 3 D interaction module a user control action corresponding to the gesture detected to control the computing device.

Example 27 may include the subject matter of Example 26 further comprising means for analyzing the individual finger movements to detect a mouse click gesture based on the individual finger movements and means for executing a mouse click in response to detection of the mouse click gesture.

Example 28 may include the subject matter of Example 26 further comprising means for determining a location of the individual fingers within the 3 D interaction region and means for correlating the location of the individual fingers within the 3 D interaction region with a location of a cursor rendered on a display of the computing device.

Example 29 may include the subject matter of Example 28 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding an individual finger of a hand extending beyond remaining fingers of the hand in a fixed location for a pre determined period of time within the 3 D interaction region.

Example 30 may include the subject matter of Example 28 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding an individual finger of a hand extending beyond remaining fingers of the hand in a fixed position within the 3 D interaction region for a first pre determined period of time to cause the correlated location of the cursor to freeze for a second pre determined period of time and the gesture detected further comprises a forward or downward movement of a tip of the individual finger within the second pre determined period of time and wherein executing further comprises executing a user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 31 may include the subject matter of Example 28 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding a first finger of the individual fingers in a fixed location within the 3 D interaction region and bringing a second finger of the individual fingers into contact with the first finger and wherein executing further comprises executing a user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 32 may include the subject matter of Example 28 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding a first finger of the individual fingers in a fixed location and wherein the gesture detected further comprises bringing a second finger to the right of the first finger into contact with the first finger and wherein executing further comprises executing a user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 33 may include the subject matter of Example 28 wherein the gesture detected comprises holding a first finger of the individual fingers in a fixed location and wherein the gesture detected further comprises bringing a second finger to the left of the first finger into contact with the first finger and wherein executing further comprises executing a user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 34 may include the subject matter of Example 28 wherein the gesture detected comprises swirling an individual finger of a hand extending beyond remaining fingers of the hand in a clockwise or counter clockwise direction and wherein executing further comprises executing a user control action proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display the user control action based on the direction of the swirling of the individual finger.

Example 35 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 26 34 wherein the user control action is a mouse click of an item proximate to the correlated location of the cursor rendered on the display.

Example 36 may include the subject matter of any one of Examples 26 34 wherein the 3 D interaction region coincides or intersects with a floating display.

