---

title: Messaging security device
abstract: In one embodiment, a system can comprise an interface that receives data related to a communication session and a messaging security device component that evaluates the data and enables a security measure for preventative monitoring of a threat based on the evaluation, the security measure can be universally applied to two or more messaging formats.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09077739&OS=09077739&RS=09077739
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 09077739
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130703
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 563 730 filed Nov. 28 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The subject disclosure relates generally to securing internal and or external communication and information transfer.

Enterprises employ a vast number of protocols for internal and or external communications and information transfer in order to ensure reliability security and compliance with particular policies. For example internal and or external communications and information transfer can include but are not limited to electronic mail email Internet Protocol IP telephony web mail web browsing text messaging over a network of two or more computers or network connectable processor based devices . In general email allows electronic communication of a text message alone or in combination with graphics and optional attachments while text or instant messaging is a simpler communication mechanism most frequently employed for transmitting short text messages. These electronic communication media are popular as they provide inexpensive easy point to point communication that is less intrusive than traditional techniques and or non electronic communications. There is an abundance of other benefits for example email easily enables one to many communication there is no need to synchronize participants and the content can be planned more easily among other things. Unfortunately these media have adversaries and or protocols that threaten the convenience of and confidence in their use namely spam viruses malware compliance with corporate and or regulatory policies monitoring and management.

A variety of systems and techniques have been developed and employed to combat spam and malicious code related to electronic communication media. Conventionally enterprises utilize independent and isolated security defense and or protective techniques which can be detrimental to efficient threat suppression and policy enforcement. For example an enterprise may utilize a filter associated with email yet filter definitions and or identified threats may be ignored in connection with the filter corresponding with instant messaging. Such conventional security and or protective techniques are vulnerable weak and easily penetrated.

The following presents a simplified overview of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This overview is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject innovation relates to systems and or methods that facilitate utilizing a universal protocol for a variety of disparate messaging formats associated with internal and or external communication and information transfer. A system can comprise an interface that receives data related to a communication session. A messaging security device component can evaluate the data received and can enable a security measure for preventative monitoring of a threat based on the evaluation wherein the security measure can be universally applied to two or more disparate messaging formats.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the subject matter may be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of example embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.

As utilized herein terms component system interface engine protocol communications and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a program a library a subroutine and or a computer or a combination of software and hardware. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Now turning to the figures illustrates a system that facilitates utilizing a common protocol for a variety of disparate messaging formats associated with internal and or external communication and information transfer. The system can include a messaging security device MSD component that can monitor data received thereby establishing a secured data communication . The data can be received via an interface component herein referred to as interface and described in detail infra wherein a secured data communication can be enabled to a plurality of messaging formats based at least in part upon the data monitoring. The MSD component can enforce security services and or policies to data communications and information transfers associated with a communication session regardless of a messaging format. The data evaluated by the MSD component can relate to the communication session. Moreover the communication session can include any suitable number of devices utilizing any number of distinct and specific messaging formats. For instance the messaging formats can be but are not limited to being email instant messaging Internet Protocol IP telephony web mail web browsing cable video streaming voice communications audio communications video communications voice mail video mail facsimile and or any other suitable messaging format utilized for electronic data communication. In addition the device can be a computer a machine a laptop a portable digital assistant PDA a smartphone a mobile communication device a cellular phone a messaging device a wireless device a server a network a gaming device e.g. any suitable device capable of utilizing a video game a portable media device e.g. any suitable device that can employ media files such as MP3 wave video clips etc. any device capable of utilizing a messaging format etc. In another example embodiment the MSD component can be incorporated and or associated with a router data store a hub a bridge a file server a workstation a network interface card a concentrator a hub a repeater and or any other suitable networking device associated with communications. Furthermore it is to be appreciated that the data can be but is not limited to being most data associated with communications between parties. Moreover the system can evaluate the data using packet header deep packet inspection or the like.

The MSD component allows a universal security policy and or service to be employed to communication sessions regardless of the specific messaging format being utilized. In a specific example the MSD component can detect malware associated with a first communication session utilizing a first messaging format and provide a secured data communication to any utilized messaging format in later communication sessions. Conventionally such security policy had to be independently maintained and implemented for each messaging format. In other words traditional security services and or policies could not be implemented across disparate messaging formats in a universal and efficient manner. The MSD component allows integrated and shared security services to be uniformly applied across any messaging format which enhances and optimizes security measures associated with communication sessions.

In one example an enterprise can utilize messaging formats such as IP telephony email web mail and instant messaging. Upon monitoring and or evaluating a communication associated with the IP telephony messaging format the MSD component can ascertain a threat and or violation associated with a policy e.g. office home enterprise etc. . Based on such detection the MSD component can seamlessly apply preventative actions to any other messaging formats including the format that initially contained the threat and or violation. Thus if the threat was a malicious virus not only would the IP telephony messaging format be protected but email web mail and instant messaging can be alerted and corrective measures can be employed therewith. For instance the IP telephony can be isolated from use while the web mail email and instant messaging have restricted access to IP telephony as well as any other communication sessions that relate to the particular threat. Additionally the MSD component can initiate protective measures on a user level such that the particular user on IP telephony can be isolated rather than the entire messaging format and disparate messaging formats can be restricted to access that particular user on IP telephony. In other words the MSD component provides an integrated common set of security services and policy definitions for multiple messaging protocols and or formats.

The MSD component can be utilized in most any suitable environment that implements and or utilizes messaging formats for internal and or external communications and information transfer. For instance the system can be employed in an office an enterprise a company a warehouse an automation environment a home a network a small business etc. By utilizing the MSD component any communication sessions related to the particular environment e.g. an office an enterprise a company a warehouse a home a network a small business etc. can be secured with a common security outbound filtering and or network linkages. In addition the system can be utilized by a single device rather than across an entire network and or multitude of devices in a particular environment. Thus Bob Jones in an office with 80 other employees can solely utilize the MSD component .

In general the MSD component and the system can share threat and reputation information among different messaging formats e.g. such that information gleaned and or obtained from one messaging format protocol can be used to protect messaging in disparate formats . Moreover the system can evaluate historical data associated with communication sessions in a common data store not shown for any utilized messaging format in order to ascertain protective measures for current and or future communication sessions related to respective messaging. Furthermore the MSD component can utilize the common data store to evaluate active communications independent of messaging format in order to provide the secured data communication .

In accordance with one aspect of the subject specification the system can provide unified policy generation and enforcement common and simplified management platform with corresponding tools and centralized archival and logging for administration and compliance. The MSD component can initiate linkage with a network to share threat information and to initiate and execute mitigation actions at any level e.g. network level message level etc. across users and or messaging protocols. Additionally the system can include analysis engines such as anti spam authentication encryption AV content security and outbound compliance. These common analysis and policy engines can be used for analysis of any message irrespective of protocols and subject a message to as few of the analysis steps as possible to determine the appropriate disposition of that message.

It is to be appreciated that the MSD component can handle a variety of messaging formats regardless of type and or characteristics associated therewith. In particular the MSD component can provide a security measure that can be applied to one or more messaging formats despite having disparate characteristics and or details. In other words the MSD component can provide a universal security measure that can be applied to a plurality of messaging formats while also being able to provide a universal security measure that can be applied to a messaging format with numerous types kinds of such messaging format. Thus the MSD component can provide a universal security measure to instant messenger formats wherein there are instant messenger format of type 1 e.g. from company A instant messenger format of type 2 e.g. from company B and so on and so forth. Furthermore the MSD component can employ security to a communication sessions with two or more messaging formats and or within one messaging format having two or more kinds types of such messaging format. In general it is to be appreciated that the MSD component can handle providing security via a universal security measure for a first data type e.g. messaging format messaging format type kind etc. and a second data type e.g. messaging format messaging format type kind etc. .

In addition the system can include any suitable and or necessary interface which provides various adapters connectors channels communication paths etc. to integrate the MSD component into virtually any operating and or database system s and or with one another. In addition the interface can provide various adapters connectors channels communication paths etc. that provide for interaction with the MSD component secured data communication and any other device and or component associated with the system .

For instance a user can utilize various messaging formats within an environment such as but not limited to an office an enterprise a company a warehouse an automation environment a home a network a school a university a library a small business any environment that can utilize a messaging format etc. For instance a user can utilize IP telephony email and instant messaging on a desktop machine at work and or home. The MSD component allows all messaging formats to be analyzed and security policies and or services can be universally generated and or seamlessly applied to the messaging formats . Thus the MSD component can identify a threat related to email and further apply a security measure and or protective mechanism to email IP telephony and instant messaging. If for instance the threat is a newly identified restricted email such restriction can be implemented to email e.g. blocking the email address marking the email as spam etc. IP telephony e.g. blocking related IP addresses domain names web sites etc. and instant messaging e.g. identifying the username handle and corresponding machine to block blocking the respective IP address etc. .

It is to be appreciated that the system can identify messaging format e.g. email instant messaging web mail web browsing IP telephony audio communications video communications voice mail video mail and the like traffic to and or from a particular single user machine device. The system can automatically identify various user names by the owner of that machine. In other words a user utilizing a screen name for instant messaging and an email address can send malicious attacks to an environment. Based on such automatic identification the MSD component can enforce a common policy. Thus the MSD component can create a common and universal policy for both instant messaging and email by blocking the particular user from the identified machine.

For instance by looking at user identifications IDs used in but not limited to SMTP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol POP Post Office Protocol IMAP Internet Message Access Protocol MAPI Messaging Application Programming Interface etc. traffic to an email server the owner of a machine device can be identified. The MSD component can tie such data to an instant messaging handle and or phone number by querying a directory e.g. LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol AD Address Directory etc. . Moreover the system can sniff public instant messaging traffic e.g. AIM AOL brand Instant Messenger MSN Microsoft brand Instant Messenger Y Yahoo brand Instant Messenger etc. to capture what IDs are used to login to those networks and to associate them to a handle. By implementing the above the MSD component can ascertain that for instance instant messaging servicehandle maverick instant messaging servicehandle Lt. Pete Mitchell and instant messaging servicehandle tcruise email tom.cruise pictures.com and telephone 310 555 1213 are all disparate personas for the same person Tom Cruise in the directory. The MSD component can universally apply a policy to the email and instant messaging formats regardless of differences and characteristics associated therewith. As used herein it is to be understood that a persona can refer to an alias an identity a role or the like that an individual can assume with various messaging formats.

These identified personas e.g. aggregated identity etc. can be utilized to converge on an individual reputation score e.g. rating to ascertain threat level of user faster than if there was access to only one form of messaging format as in conventional techniques. Additionally the identity and reputation can then be utilized to apply a comprehensive policy. For instance if Tom Cruise is harassing Nicole Kidman emails instant messages IP telephony can block communications from the user and any identified personas e.g. email addresses instant message handles phone numbers etc. related to that owner s machine device.

In another example traffic rates and other measures can be evaluated by the MSD component to ascertain that it is not Tom Cruise who is sending the harassing emails instant messages and phone calls e.g. via softphone on a PC IP telephony etc. but a zombie that is infecting Tom s machine. The MSD component can instruct the network e.g. via a system log message to a MARS Monitoring Analysis and Response System device to instruct the switch nearest to that device to place that port and hence the device into a quarantine VLAN Virtual Local Area Network until the infection is removed. Moreover since the MSD component handles email instant messaging IP telephony etc. the identified machine device can be informed via email instant messaging IP telephony etc. that such machine device is compromised and even provide a link and or instructions on how to disinfect such machine device.

Moreover upon such identification of machine user persona the MSD component can provide repair instructions associated with such detected threat utilizing one of the utilized messaging formats e.g. email IP telephony web mail web browsing video streams instant messaging etc. . It is to be appreciated that the repair instructions can be communicated over a disparate messaging format in comparison to the messaging format that includes the identified threat.

The system can include a messaging format and a messaging format wherein the MSD component can provide secure communications associated therewith. The messaging format can include any suitable number of devices therewith such as a deviceto device where M is a positive integer. Moreover the messaging format can include any suitable number of devices therewith such as deviceto device where P is a positive integer. As discussed supra there can be any suitable number of messaging formats. For example the messaging format can be email wherein users can utilize any suitable device that utilizes email e.g. laptop desktop computer machine PDA smartphone mobile communication device a portable media device a gaming device etc. . Furthermore there can be any number of such devices that utilize the messaging format .

In one example the MSD component can receive any data related to a communication session regardless of messaging format. The messaging formats can be distilled into a common format wherein a security measure and or protective maintenance can be uniformly applied therewith. For instance the common format can be implemented based on the fact that communications in various formats include elements e.g. sender receiver time header footer subject body time stamp etc. that can be similarly scanned and or gleaned to identify threats and or malicious behavior characteristics.

Based at least in part upon detection and or identification of a threat and or violation the MSD component can create the security measure and or protective maintenance. Such security measure and or protective maintenance can be employed by a policy engine . The policy engine can implement a uniform treatment of any utilized messaging type and or format. Thus based on a detected threat such as a virus in an email the policy engine can enforce restriction and or blockage of such virus in email e.g. including all email aliases associated with the identified machine device as well as other messaging formats such as but not limited to IP telephony web mail instant messaging e.g. including all handles associated with the identified machine device and the like.

The system can include a scanning engine that can evaluate data passed in each messaging and or communication format. The scanning engine can be utilized to analyze data in a communication session regardless of format wherein such analysis can be employed to create security measures and or protective maintenance such as a filter a policy etc. For instance the scanning engine can be any suitable type of filter such as but not limited to an anti spam filter an AV Anti Virus filter a URL Universal Resource Locator filter a URI Uniform Resource Identifier filter a content analysis a compliance filter and an authentication filter content security outbound compliance encryption etc. In addition it is to be appreciated that the scanning engine can include analysis of any historical data and or provide dynamic analysis of communication sessions e.g. providing real time up to date protection .

The system can further utilize a correlator component that can aggregate data associated with any suitable communication session and provide the following 1 implementation of a protective action and or security measure and 2 reporting of such identified threats and or policy violations. For instance the correlator component can evaluate historical data related to a past communication session and identify a particular machine with various personas that are harmful. Based on such identification the correlator component can provide a protective action and or security measure to all available and or utilized messaging formats. In addition the correlator component can provide a report of such detection to another entity such as but not limited to CS MARS and the like for further correlation and or action.

The system can utilize a common analysis engine not shown . The common analysis engine can use the substantially similar analysis engine e.g. as applicable for a given format and a consistent scoring mechanism to rate treats and compliance. Furthermore a message scoring mechanism can be defined that aggregates the results of each analysis engine e.g. as applicable . An example structure follows 

It is to be appreciated that a parser not shown can attempt to define most fields. In the case where a field does not apply then the parser can complete the field with the closest matching field. For example in the case of an instant message there is no such field as an Envelope From or Message From. In this case the parser can attempt to discover the Apparently From field and if successful use that data to populate Envelope From and Message From. If unsuccessful then all four fields should be set to be the handle. Another example can be the Message Date field. Again in an instant message there is no formal Date field so the time and date that the parser received the instant message should be used to populate both the Message Date and Parse Date fields.

It is to be appreciated that the data store can be for example either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM . The data store of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory. In addition it is to be appreciated that the data store can be a server a database a hard drive and the like.

It is to be understood that the intelligent component can provide for reasoning about or infer states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification explicitly and or implicitly trained schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

A classifier maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

The MSD component can further utilize a presentation component that provides various types of user interfaces to facilitate interaction between a user and any component coupled to the MSD component . As depicted the presentation component is a separate entity that can be utilized with the MSD component . However it is to be appreciated that the presentation component and or similar view components can be incorporated into the MSD component and or a stand alone unit. The presentation component can provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs command line interfaces and the like. For example a GUI can be rendered that provides a user with a region or means to load import read etc. data and can include a region to present the results of such. These regions can comprise known text and or graphic regions comprising dialogue boxes static controls drop down menus list boxes pop up menus as edit controls combo boxes radio buttons check boxes push buttons and graphic boxes. In addition utilities to facilitate the presentation such as vertical and or horizontal scroll bars for navigation and toolbar buttons to determine whether a region will be viewable can be employed. For example the user can interact with one or more of the components coupled and or incorporated into the MSD component .

The user can also interact with the regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse a roller ball a keypad a keyboard a pen and or voice activation for example. Typically a mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent entering the information in order to initiate the search. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example merely highlighting a check box can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via a text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via providing a text message. The user can than provide suitable information such as alpha numeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a GUI and or API. In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays e.g. black and white and EGA with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

The system can further include a repair component that can evaluate the identified threat and or violation associated with the communication session and associated messaging formats to initiate a corrective measure and or protective maintenance to the infected entity. For instance based at least in part upon the MSD component having access to any messaging format utilized by the network the repair component can provide a security measure and or preventative maintenance to a device e.g. infected device via any suitable messaging format e.g. non infected . In one example the repair component can provide corrective data such as but not limited to repair instructions links help files and the like.

At reference numeral a security policy can be enforced seamlessly to at least two or more messaging formats based on the analysis. The security policy can be applied to any suitable and or utilized messaging format based on the detected threat and or violation regardless of which specific messaging format the initial threat was detected. In other words a threat can be identified in a first messaging format and a security policy can be seamlessly applied to the first messaging format as well as any other utilized messaging format based upon such threat. This can allow integrated and shared security services to be uniformly applied across any messaging format which enhances and optimizes security measures associated with communication sessions. Furthermore the security policy can be applied to a communication sessions with two or more messaging formats and or within one messaging format having two or more kinds types of such messaging format. In general it is to be appreciated that the security policy can be for a first data type e.g. messaging format messaging format type kind etc. and a second data type e.g. messaging format messaging format type kind etc. .

At reference numeral a source of a threat and or violation of a policy can be identified. Thus a machine and or device associated with a specific threat and or violation can be ascertained and or located. It is to be appreciated that by identifying the particular machine device associated with the threat the methodology accounts for multiple personas associated with the source of the threat and or violation. For example a machine can be the source of multiple attacks through email instant messaging IP telephony and or any other messaging format. Moreover such machine can utilize numerous email addresses instant messaging handles IP telephony numbers etc. for such attacks. In other words the machine and associated personas can be identified as the source of a threat and or violation of a policy. Furthermore the type of the source of the threat can be identified wherein the type can be a device e.g. machine computer laptop gaming device etc. a user e.g. a person an identity a persona etc. and a type content of the communication itself e.g. characteristic of the threat attachment in email etc. .

At reference numeral a corrective measure can be generated and enforced to any utilized messaging format. Based at least in part upon the identified target and or source of the threat and or violation a corrective measure can be employed in order to thwart future and or existing attacks associated with the target and or source. Furthermore the corrective measure can be applied to any messaging format regardless of any details associated therewith. In other words the security measure can be universally applied to a variety of disparate messaging formats and or within one messaging format having multiple kinds types in a seamless manner. At reference numeral a messaging format can be utilized to communicate repair data. The repair data can be but is not limited to repair instructions links help files any suitable data that can mitigate a detected threat and or violation etc. Upon detection and enforcement of a corrective measure the infected device can be provided with instructions and or tips on how to disinfect and or repair damage inflicted from the threat and or violation via a messaging format that is uninfected and or clean of any threat s .

At reference numeral the common data store can be analyzed in order to detect a threat and or violation. In particular previous communication sessions and or historic data can be evaluated to glean information associated with security threats and or policy violations. Moreover the common data store can be dynamically analyzed to provide real time analysis associated with threat and or violation. At reference numeral a security measure and or preventative measure can be implemented to a plurality of messaging formats based on such detection associated with the common data store. This can allow integrated and shared security services to be uniformly applied across any messaging format and or within one messaging format having multiple kinds types which enhances and optimizes security measures associated with communication sessions.

In order to provide additional context for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter and the following discussion is intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the subject innovation may be implemented. For example a messaging security device MSD component that facilitates employing a universal security service and or policy definition for a plurality of messaging formats as described in the previous figures can be implemented in such suitable computing environment. While the claimed subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a local computer and or remote computer those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject specification also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multi processor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based and or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which may operatively communicate with one or more associated devices. The illustrated aspects of the claimed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the subject innovation may be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices.

One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operably connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operably connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1294 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in the suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for example purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functionality performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified functionality of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the functionality in the herein illustrated example aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the innovation includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the subject innovation may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

