---

title: Orally dissolving thin films containing allergens and methods of making and use
abstract: The present invention provides a thin mucoadhesive sublingual film composition which provides improved allergen delivery and efficacy at a smaller dose while prolonging the contact time between the allergen and oral antigen presenting cells (APCs), and therefore minimizing the risk of systemic side effects. The thin film compositions of the present invention are also easier to standardize, and removes any need for measuring allergen doses at the physician's office, and which allows for a simplified dosing schedule. Methods of making the thin film compositions and methods for their use are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09539334&OS=09539334&RS=09539334
owner: John Hopkins University
number: 09539334
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130517
---
This application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 U.S. national entry of International Application PCT US2013 041552 having an international filing date of May 17 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 648 106 filed on May 17 2012 the content of each of the aforementioned applications is herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under grant no. RR025005 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Peanut allergy affects about 1 percent of children in the United States and the prevalence of this disease has increased dramatically in the past 20 years. Because peanuts and other food based allergies are pervasive and reactions can occur to even minute quantities these types of allergies pose substantial risks to individual health and have significant negative impact on individual quality of life. Such allergies are typically life long with a resolution rate of only about 20 . Avoidance of the allergens and treatment of accidental exposures have been the mainstays of therapy for allergic patients.

Allergen specific immunotherapy in the form of oral immunotherapy OIT and sublingual immunotherapy SLIT have recently shown some promise however with these therapies the composition is in liquid form and must be held under the tongue for a specified period of time and then swallowing or orally with the product mixed with food or drink and swallowed.

Current methods of therapy using aqueous drops are not optimized either for practicality or efficiency. Currently the maximal sublingual dose has been limited by both the ability to generate stable concentrated extracts and by the amount of liquid that can tolerably be held under the tongue by a subject. In addition the amount of time that the allergen extract remains in the mouth is practically limited.

As such there still exists an unmet need for improved methods of immunotherapy to treat food and other types of allergies.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a thin film pharmaceutical composition suitable for use in the treatment of an allergic response in a subject comprising a about 10 to about 100 w w of a primary film forming agent wherein the agent comprises at least one or more water soluble polymers selected from the group consisting of pullulan hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose polyvinyl pyrrolidone carboxymethyl cellulose polyvinyl alcohol sodium alginate polyethylene glycol xanthan gum tragacanth gum guar gum acacia gum arabic gum polyacrylic acid methylmethacrylate copolymer carboxyvinyl polymer high amylase starch hydroxypropylated high amylase starch dextrin pectin chitin chitosan levan elsinan collagen gelatin zein gluten soy protein isolate whey protein isolate and casein b about 0.1 to about 20 w w of a biodegradeable plasticizer selected from the group consisting of glycerols sorbitol poly ethylene glycol acetylated monoglycerides and alkyl citrates c about 0.1 to about 30 w w of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients and carriers d about 0.1 to about 20 w w of at least one or more mucoadhesive polymers and e 10 ng to about 50 mg or at least about 0.1 to about 50 w w of at least one allergen extract.

In accordance with another embodiment the present invention provides a method for preparing a quick dissolving thin film composition comprising the pharmaceutical composition described above the method comprising the steps of a forming an emulsion of one or more allergen extracts one or more primary film forming agents one or more biodegradeable plasticizers one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients and carriers and one or more mucoadhesive polymers b dispersing the emulsion into a film forming solution and c forming a film from said dispersion.

In accordance with a further embodiment the present invention provides a method for treatment of an allergic response to an antigen in a subject comprising administering to the subject a sufficient amount of at least one pharmaceutical composition described above.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the present invention provides a thin mucoadhesive sublingual film composition which addresses the practical concerns discussed above by allowing for allergen efficacy at a smaller dose while prolonging the contact time between the allergen and oral antigen presenting cells APCs and therefore minimizing the risk of systemic side effects. The thin film compositions of the present invention are also easier to standardize and removes any need for measuring allergen doses at the physician s office and which allows for a simplified dosing schedule.

In an embodiment it will be understood that children who will likely comprise a majority of the intended subjects dosage administration is greatly facilitated due to the fact that children often cannot hold drops under the tongue for any prolonged length of time without swallowing. The mucoadhesive films of the present invention do not have the same swallowing restrictions. The thin film formulation preserves the allergen bioactivity and shows longer term stability compared to other pharmaceutical formulations. The film fabrication process is based in part on the thin film compositions disclosed in WO 2010 002418 and incorporated by reference herein it its entirety.

As will be disclosed in more detail the manufacture and use of the thin film compositions of the present invention are versatile and can easily be extended to other allergens.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition suitable for use in the treatment of an allergic response in a subject comprising a about 10 to about 100 w w of a primary film forming agent wherein the agent comprises at least one or more water soluble polymers selected from the group consisting of pullulan hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose polyvinyl pyrrolidone carboxymethyl cellulose polyvinyl alcohol sodium alginate polyethylene glycol xanthan gum tragacanth gum guar gum acacia gum arabic gum polyacrylic acid methylmethacrylate copolymer carboxyvinyl polymer high amylase starch hydroxypropylated high amylase starch dextrin pectin chitin chitosan levan elsinan collagen gelatin zein gluten soy protein isolate whey protein isolate and casein b about 0.1 to about 20 w w of a biodegradable plasticizer selected from the group consisting of glycerols sorbitol poly ethylene glycol acetylated monoglycerides and alkyl citrates c about 0.1 to about 30 w w of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients and carriers d about 0.1 to about 20 w w of at least one or more mucoadhesive polymers and e 10 ng to about 50 mg or at least about 0.0001 to about 70 w w of at least one allergen extract. In certain embodiments the subject compositions of the present invention comprise about 1 to about 75 or more by weight of the total composition alternatively about 2.5 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 or 70 of at least one allergen extract.

It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the term film forming agents as used in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical fields typically includes hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP acrylates acrylamides and copolymers thereof.

As used herein the term biodegradable plasticizers are compounds that increase the fluidity or flexibility of the thin film and include poly L lactic acid glycerols sorbitol poly ethylene glycol acetylated monoglycerides and alkyl citrates.

The precise effective amount for a human subject will depend upon the severity of the subject s disease state general health age weight gender diet time and frequency of administration drug combination s reaction sensitivities and tolerance or response to therapy. A routine experimentation can determine this amount and is within the judgment of the medical professional. Compositions may be administered individually to a patient or they may be administered in combination with other drugs hormones agents and the like.

With respect to the compositions described herein the carrier can be any of those conventionally used and is limited only by physico chemical considerations such as solubility and lack of reactivity with the active compound s and by the route of administration. The carriers described herein for example vehicles adjuvants excipients and diluents are well known to those skilled in the art and are readily available to the public. It is preferred that the carrier be one which is chemically inert to the active agent s and one which has little or no detrimental side effects or toxicity under the conditions of use. Examples of the carriers include soluble carriers such as known buffers which can be physiologically acceptable e.g. phosphate buffer as well as solid compositions such as solid state carriers or latex beads.

The carriers or diluents used herein may be solid carriers or diluents for solid formulations or mixtures thereof.

Solid carriers or diluents include but are not limited to gums starches e.g. corn starch pregelatinized starch sugars e.g. lactose mannitol sucrose dextrose cellulosic materials e.g. microcrystalline cellulose acrylates e.g. polymethylacrylate calcium carbonate magnesium oxide talc or mixtures thereof.

Further carriers or excipients include binders e.g. acacia cornstarch gelatin carbomer ethyl cellulose guar gum hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose povidone buffers e.g. Tris HCl. acetate phosphate of various pH and ionic strength additives such as albumin or gelatin to prevent absorption to surfaces solubilizing agents e.g. cremophor glycerol polyethylene glycerol benzlkonium chloride benzyl benzoate cyclodextrins sorbitan esters stearic acids anti oxidants e.g. ascorbic acid sodium metabisulfite butylated hydroxyanisole stabilizers e.g. hydroxypropyl cellulose hyroxypropylmethyl cellulose viscosity increasing agents e.g. carbomer colloidal silicon dioxide ethyl cellulose guar gum sweeteners e.g. aspartame citric acid preservatives e.g. thimerosal benzyl alcohol parabens emulsifiers e.g. carbomer hydroxypropyl cellulose sodium lauryl sulfate and or adjuvants.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition as described above further comprising f about 0.01 to about 0.1 w w of a coloring agent and g about 0.1 to about 10 w w of a flavoring agent.

Flavoring agents among those useful herein include any material or mixture of materials operable to enhance the taste of the present composition. Any orally acceptable natural or synthetic flavorant can be used such as flavoring oils flavoring aldehydes esters alcohols similar materials and combinations thereof. Flavoring agents include vanillin sage marjoram parsley oil spearmint oil cinnamon oil oil of wintergreen methyl salicylate peppermint oil clove oil bay oil anise oil oil citrus oils fruit oils and essences including those derived from lemon orange lime grapefruit apricot banana grape apple strawberry cherry pineapple etc. bean and nut derived flavors such as coffee cocoa cola peanut almond etc. adsorbed and encapsulated flavorants and mixtures thereof. Also encompassed within flavorants herein are ingredients that provide fragrance and or other sensory effect in the mouth including cooling or warming effects. Such ingredients include menthol menthyl acetate menthyl lactate camphor oil eucalyptol anethole eugenol oxanone .alpha. irisone propenyl guaiethol thymol linalool benzaldehyde cinnamaldehyde N ethyl p menthan 3 carboxamine N 2 3 trimethyl 2 isopropylbutanamide 3 1 menthoxypropane 1 2 diol cinnamaldehyde glycerol acetal CGA methone glycerol acetal MGA 1 menthol carvone anethole eugenol limonene peppermint oil spearmint oil ocimene n amyl alcohol citronellol a terpineol methyl salicylate methyl acetate citronellol acetate cineol linalool ethyl linalool capsaicin and mixtures thereof. One or more flavorants are optionally present in a total amount of about 0.01 to about 5 by weight optionally in various embodiments from about 0.05 to about 2 by weight from about 0.1 to about 2.5 by weight and from about 0.1 to about 0.5 by weight.

Colorants among those useful herein include pigments dyes lakes and agents imparting a particular luster or reflectivity to the composition to enhance attractiveness to the consumer. Any orally acceptable colorant can be used including FD C dyes and pigments talc mica magnesium carbonate calcium carbonate magnesium silicate magnesium aluminum silicate silica titanium dioxide zinc oxide red yellow brown and black iron oxides ferric ammonium ferrocyanide manganese violet ultramarine titaniated mica bismuth oxychloride and mixtures thereof. One or more colorants are optionally present in a total amount of about 0.001 to about 20 by weight for example about 0.01 to about 10 by weight or about 0.1 to about 5 by weight.

Sweetening agents of the present invention include sodium saccharin aspartame sucralose thaumatin acesulfame potassium stevioside stevia extract paramethoxy cinnamic aldehyde neohesperidyl dihydrochalcone and perillartine. Sweeteners among those useful herein also include orally acceptable natural or artificial nutritive or non nutritive sweeteners. Such sweeteners in the present invention can include dextrose polydextrose sucrose maltose dextrin dried invert sugar mannose xylose ribose fructose levulose galactose corn syrup including high fructose corn syrup and corn syrup solids partially hydrolyzed starch hydrogenated starch hydrolysate sorbitol mannitol xylitol maltitol isomalt neotame saccharin and salts thereof sucralose dipeptide based intense sweeteners cyclamates dihydrochalcones and mixtures thereof. One or more sweeteners are optionally present in a total amount depending strongly on the particular sweetener s selected but typically at levels of from about 0.005 to about 5 by weight optionally from about 0.01 to about 10 by weight.

In accordance with a further embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition as described above wherein the composition is prepared as a thin film with a range of thickness. In an embodiment the thickness of the thin films of the present invention can be between about 10 m to about 1 mm preferably between about 20 m to about 800 m and more preferably between about 50 to about 500 m.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition as described above wherein the thin film is cut into strips. The shape of the strips can be any shape desired that can accommodate oral or buccal delivery or placement. The dimensions of the strips can be between 0.25 0.25 mm to about 2.0 2.0 cm. In an embodiment the strips of the present invention have dimensions of about 1 2 cm. It will be understood by those of skill in the art that the films of the present invention can be shaped into any particular size or dimension depending on the dose and route of administration.

It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that mucoadhesive polymers are used in the thin film compositions of the present invention. It is known that the use of a mucoadhesive polymer will attach to related tissue or to the surface coating of the tissue for the targeting various absorptive mucosa such as ocular nasal pulmonary buccal vaginal etc. There are two broad classes of mucoadhesive polymers hydrophilic polymer and hydrogels. In the large classes of hydrophilic polymers those containing carboxylic group exhibit the best mucoadhesive properties poly vinyl pyrrolidone PVP methyl cellulose MC sodium carboxymethylcellulose SCMC hydroxypropyl cellulose HPC and other cellulose derivatives. Hydrogels are the class of polymeric biomaterial that exhibit the basic characteristics of hydrogels to swell by absorbing water interacting by means of adhesion with the mucus that covers epithelia and include cationic anionic and neutral hydrogels e.g. chitosan carbopol and Eudragit . All mucoadhesive polymers have certain specific characters like high molecular weight and viscosity long chain length and flexibility of chain. These polymers also include co polymers such as a copolymer of PAA and PEG monoethylether monomethacrylate PAA co PEG for example.

In accordance with another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition as described above wherein the mucoadhesive polymers are naturally occurring and or synthetic and are selected from the group consisting of chitosan hyaluronate alginate gelatin collagen poly acrylic acid poly methacrylic acid poly L lysine poly ethyleneimine hydroxylpropyl methylcellulose poly ethylene oxide poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate and derivatives or copolymers thereof.

As used herein in an embodiment the term allergen extract means an extract of allergenic components from a crude preparation of an allergen such as weed grass or tree pollen molds house dust or animal dander used for diagnostic skin testing or for immunotherapy for allergy. In another embodiment the proteins from the allergenic extract can be isolated and purified. Allergenic source materials include pollens animal dander fungal spores house dust mite fecal particles insect venoms and foods. Allergen extracts are prepared by aqueous extraction of allergenic source materials obtained from natural sources. The production process is intended to be compatible with the physiological conditions to which the allergen is exposed upon contact with the human body. Allergens enter the body in various ways and encounter different physiologic conditions during the process. Food allergens must pass the acidic barrier of the stomach in order to reach the immunological centers in the intestine. Thus food allergens must be resistant to the chemical and enzymatic degradation occurring in the stomach. An exception to this generalization are food allergens with structural similarities to pollen allergens which can elicit symptoms in pollen sensitized people while in contact with the oral mucosa. This type of reaction underlies oral allergy syndrome a type of food allergic reaction.

In accordance with another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition as described above wherein the allergen extract is selected from the group consisting of peanut extract tree nut extract milk extract shellfish extract cockroach extract cat hair extract cat pelt extract dust mite extract grass extract insect venom extract dog hair extract food extracts meat extracts urine extracts such as mouse urine extract for example and egg extracts. In some embodiments the allergen extract is a nut extract. In a preferred embodiment the allergen extract is a peanut extract.

The extraction procedure should resemble the physiological conditions in the human body i.e. pH 6 to 9 and ionic strength 0.05 to 0.2 and must avoid denaturing the proteins allergens i.e. organic solvents should be excluded . The process should be mild enough to avoid decomposition. Low molecular weight material i.e. below 5000 Da which is primarily composed of non allergenic pigments and salts may also contain pharmacologically active substances and may be removed. The processing procedure should include assessment of known toxins viral particles microorganisms free histamines etc verifying their concentration below defined thresholds. Foods constitute a particularly diverse and difficult area and the availability of standardized extracts is correspondingly limited. Foods are often derived from various cultivars and subspecies grown under a broad variety of conditions. Differences in tissue distribution and solubility properties of individual allergens may prevent optimal yields in a single extraction procedure. In such cases a superior extract is derived by combining extracts produced using different buffers and different tissues e.g. peel and pulp for fruits . Processing of the extract in an attempt to mimic digestion is specifically avoided as some allergens causing oral allergy syndrome may be destroyed by such procedures. In addition although some foods are typically cooked prior to ingestion cooking unpredictably affects the allergenicity of the foods and so attempts are not made to recreate the effects of cooking in producing food extracts.

Allergen extracts are sometimes modified chemically or physically. The purpose of these modification steps is two fold a stabilization of the allergenic proteins in the extract and b attempts to balance efficacy with safety. The issue of efficacy versus safety is most important for specific immunotherapy. Administration of an allergen extract to which the patient is allergic will inevitably cause allergic adverse reactions with a small but significant frequency. Attempts to circumvent this problem include modification of the allergen extract either by chemical or physical means to enhance immunogenicity although these modifications can also reduce allergenicity. The goal of this work is the creation of allergens that are more potent i.e. capable of inducing the immunologic changes responsible for treatment benefit but with less tendency to induce allergic adverse reactions.

Chemical modification. Allergen extracts for use in immunotherapy may be chemically modified using formaldehyde or glutaraldehyde. The chemical reaction results in intra and intermolecular cross linking which yields high molecular weight complexes i.e. allergoids . Although intended to reduce IgE binding while preserving immunogenicity chemical modification in practice does not seem to increase safety. Without being limited to any particular theory the likely explanation is that the chemical modification not only reduces allergenicity but also immunogenicity necessitating the use of higher doses.

Physical modification. Use of allergen extracts coupled to inorganic gels such as aluminum hydroxide increases the safety of immunotherapy through dual effects of the carrier. Coupling creates a depot effect resulting in slow release of allergens to the tissue and the gel provides an adjuvant effect resulting in a more pronounced immune response to the vaccine. In Europe most products for subcutaneous injection immunotherapy are aqueous extracts or allergoids absorbed to aluminum hydroxide.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically active compound or therapeutically active compound means a compound useful for the treatment or modulation of a disease or condition in a subject suffering therefrom. Examples of pharmaceutically active compounds can include any drugs known in the art for treatment of disease indications.

Other therapeutically active compounds included in the pharmaceutical compositions suitable for use in the thin film compositions of the present invention include antacids antibiotics antiemetic agents antidepressants and antifungal agents anti inflammatory agents antiviral agents anticancer agents immunomodulatory agents beta interferons hormones or cytokines.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides methods for preparing a quick dissolving thin film composition comprising the pharmaceutical compositions described herein the method comprising the steps of a forming an emulsion of one or more allergen extracts one or more primary film forming agents one or more biodegradeable plasticizers one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients and carriers and one or more mucoadhesive polymers b dispersing the emulsion into a film forming solution and c forming a film from said dispersion.

In accordance with another embodiment the present invention provides methods for preparing a quick dissolving thin film composition comprising the pharmaceutical compositions described herein wherein the allergen extract is prepared as a solution comprising the steps of a suspending the extract powder at about a 20 w v in deionized water to make an extract solution b incubating the extract solution at 37 C. for about 30 to 60 minutes c subjecting the extract solution to centrifugation at 3 000 g for 15 to 30 minutes and d collecting the supernatant of c .

In accordance with yet a further embodiment the allergen extract used in the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention is commercially prepared.

In accordance with still another embodiment the present invention provides methods for preparing a quick dissolving thin film composition comprising the pharmaceutical compositions described herein wherein the forming of the film comprises a casting the film forming solution onto a non stick surface b drying the film by exposing the solution to heat and or a low humidity environment for between about 2 hours to about 48 hours preferably between about 6 hours to about 40 hours and more preferably between about 12 hours to about 36 hours c removing the dried film from the surface of a and d cutting the film to the desired size.

It will be understood by those of ordinary skill that drying the film can be performed by many methods known including direct or indirect heating infrared exposure desiccation etc. The time for drying is dependent on the particular pharmaceutical formulation and water content and is well within the skill of those in the art.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention provides methods for treatment of an allergic response to an antigen in a subject comprising administering to the subject a sufficient amount of at least one pharmaceutical composition as disclosed herein wherein the route of administration is oral buccal or sublingual. In a preferred embodiment the route of administration is sublingual.

The terms treat and prevent as well as words stemming therefrom as used herein do not necessarily imply 100 or complete treatment or prevention. Rather there are varying degrees of treatment or prevention of which one of ordinary skill in the art recognizes as having a potential benefit or therapeutic effect. In this respect the inventive methods can provide any amount of any level of treatment or prevention of allergy in a mammal. Furthermore the treatment or prevention provided by the inventive method can include treatment or prevention of one or more conditions or symptoms of allergy being treated or prevented. Also for purposes herein prevention can encompass delaying the onset of the disease or a symptom or condition thereof.

As used herein the term subject refers to any mammal including but not limited to mammals of the order Rodentia such as mice and hamsters and mammals of the order Logomorpha such as rabbits. It is preferred that the mammals are from the order Carnivora including Felines cats and Canines dogs . It is more preferred that the mammals are from the order Artiodactyla including Bovines cows and Swines pigs or of the order Perssodactyla including Equines horses . It is most preferred that the mammals are of the order Primates Ceboids or Simoids monkeys or of the order Anthropoids humans and apes . An especially preferred mammal is the human.

An effective amount of the thin film composition of the present invention to be employed therapeutically will depend for example upon the therapeutic and treatment objectives the route of administration the age condition and body mass of the subject undergoing treatment or therapy and auxiliary or adjuvant therapies being provided to the subject. Accordingly it will be necessary and routine for the practitioner to titer the dosage and modify the route of administration as required to obtain the optimal therapeutic effect. A typical daily dosage might range from about 0.1 ng to up to about 100 mg or more preferably from about 100 ng to about 50 mg depending on the above mentioned factors. Typically the clinician will administer antibody until a dosage is reached that achieves the desired effect. The progress of this therapy is easily monitored by conventional assays.

In accordance with an embodiment the present invention also provides a kit comprising at least one of the pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein in an airtight opaque container and instructions for use.

Based on earlier pilot studies a solvent casting method is used to prepare the thin film strips to deliver a peanut extract. The main film polymer component is hydroxy propyl methylcellulose. Other polymers such as Eudragit with low acrylic content polyvinyl alcohol polyethylene glycol and sodium alginate are added to modulate film dissolution time and allergen release time. Films with 10 mg of peanut allergen per film are used for this film release kinetic studies.

Thin strip formation. A film forming solution is prepared by dissolving hydroxypropyl methylcellulose 0 10 w v Eudragit 0 10 w v with low acrylic content polyvinyl alcohol 0 10 w v and sodium alginate 0 10 w v . Peanut extract powder is dissolved in the film forming solution together with stabilizing excipients such as sucrose trehalose and glycerol. The resulting solution is then cast on a flat TEFLON mold and dried in a chamber with convective airflow at between about 10 C. to about 60 C. for between 5 to 10 hours. The dried film is cut into strips of approximately 1 inch 1 inch.

Physical characterization of the films. The physical properties of the films of the present invention uniformity toughness and wettability dissolution time and allergen release rate are all tested as follows. The mechanical strength and toughness of the films are tested on an Instron test machine n 10 . The dissolution time and total protein release are tested by submerging the thin film strips n 10 into 0.5 ml of 10 mM PBS buffer pH 7.4 at about 37 C. in a glass scintillation vial and maintained at the same temperature. An aliquot of 50 l of supernatant is withdrawn at specific intervals and measured for absorbance at 280 nm.

Mucoadhesiveness allergen release and integrity of released allergens. Film strips with different protein doses are prepared to make sure that the overall protein release kinetics are maintained. This is achieved by using polyvinyl alcohol as a filler. For each of the following assays each study is done on 10 samples at each dose level to determine the coefficient of variation between samples. A coefficient of variation of 

Mucoadhesiveness. The mucoadhesive strength of the thin film strips is studied at room temperature using an INSTRON universal testing instrument using a method reported by Kim et al. Arch. Pharm. Res. 2007 30 3 381 6 .

Release of Ara h1 and Ara h2 proteins. The supernatant samples from the release study are analyzed for the quantity of Ara h1 and Ara h2 proteins respectively through the use of monoclonal antibody based ELISA Indoor Biotechnologies Inc. .

Pilot clinical study. The pilot study includes 15 peanut allergic adults who have both clinical and serologic evidence of peanut allergy. After enrollment dosing will start at a dose of 0.1 g. Biweekly escalations are done in the GCRC with an initial goal of 10 mg over 20 weeks with a two week maintenance period. Daily doses will be taken at home. The safety of office and home doses will be assessed. Biomarkers including skin test reactivity basophil histamine release and serum IgE IgG and IgG4 is assessed at baseline and at completion of the study but the primary outcome will be safety of this preparation. When the safety data are adequate a larger controlled study of the efficacy and safety of the sublingual film is performed.

The Formulation F11 film strip contains 2 micrograms of soluble peanut extract strip. The Formulation F22 film strip contains 3 milligrams of soluble peanut extract strip. The Formulation F24 film also contains 3 milligrams of soluble peanut extract strip.

The films were prepared according to the following steps 1 the allergen solution is prepared by suspending the peanut extract powder at 20 w v in deionized water then incubating the suspension at 37 C. for 30 minutes followed by centrifuging the suspension at 3 000 g for 15 minutes and collecting the supernatant 2 Methocel E15 or F50 and glycerol are mixed with the peanut extract solution according to the quantities listed above with vortexing and ultrasonic vibration used to mix the solution until it is uniform and bubble free 3 the mixture solution is cast onto a flat surface or tray made of Teflon 4 The film solution is dried by placing the cast film in an oven at 37 C. for 12 hours 5 The dried filmstrips are removed from the tray and are cut to strips of dosing size 1 cm 2 cm 200 m each.

Three sets of thin film strips were prepared according to method described in Example 1 F22 with 19.0 mg of HPMC with different molecular weights viscosity number 5 cP 15 cP and 50 cP respectively while all other film components held constant with 1 mg glycerol per strip and 3.6 mg of soluble peanut extract per strip.

Dissolution time was measured by adding strips to 40 mL of phosphate buffered saline PBS at 37 C. in a 50 mL Pyrex beaker. The solution was agitated by a 1 cm Teflon coated stir bar rotating at 200 rpm. At different time points 300 l of samples were taken and measured on an UV Vis spectrophotometer Shimadzu UV mini 1240 at wavelengths of 214 nm 230 nm and 280 nm. The resulting absorbance values were correlated with those of a serially diluted peanut protein standard. Results are shown in . The results showed that increasing the viscosity and thus the molecular weight of HPMC decreases the dissolution rate. The total peanut extract release time ranged from 6 to 12 minutes for these three film strip samples.

Twenty five healthy volunteers were enrolled a study of dissolution time and preferred flavor of the sublingual films. The sublingual films contained either methocel 5 or methocel 15 in order to vary the dissolution time. Films containing methocel 5 took an average of 3.54 1.79 minutes to dissolve. While films containing methocel 15 took an average of 6.76 3.02 minutes to dissolve. Some participants also felt lingering flavor and residue in their mouths after the film dissolved but neither of these sensations was unpleasant.

The most preferred film flavor was chocolate. Cream was the second most preferred flavor while grape and mixed berry were the least preferred. There were no adverse events or effects reported by study volunteers. Most participants found the film s pleasant tasting regardless of flavor. Only one volunteer rated a flavor mixed berry the lowest possible rating a 5 and stated that she did not like the flavor at all.

This allergen loading method is designed to accommodate high allergen loading levels. By implementing a concentration step for the allergen solution via tangential flow filtration the maximum allergen loading can be raised to 2.4 mg of Ara h2 which is equivalent to a total protein loading of up to 50 of the total film weight.

The peanut allergen solution is concentrated from 26.9 mg mL up to 163.2 mg mL of total protein content. The film weighs 89.3 mg contains 45.1 mg of total peanut protein and 2.4 mg of Ara h2.

The films were prepared according to the following steps. The allergen solution was prepared by suspending the peanut extract powder at 20 w v in deionized water then incubating the suspension at 37 C. for 30 minutes then centrifuging the suspension at 3 000 g for 15 minutes and collecting the supernatant.

The allergen solution was then concentrated by flowing the solution in a loop through a Spectrum MidiKros tangential flow filtration unit with a 3 kD cutoff. The solution was pumped through via a peristaltic pump with the proteins and larger molecules retained within the loop and the filtrate discarded. Allergen solution was continuously added to the loop until the desired concentration is reached.

Methocel E15 glycerol and flavoring are mixed with the concentrated allergen solution according to the quantities listed above with vortexing and ultrasonic vibration used to mix the solution until it is uniform and bubble free. The mixture solution is cast onto a flat surface or tray made of Teflon. The film solution is dried overnight at room temperature. The dried filmstrips are removed from the tray and are cut to strips of dosing size 1 cm 2 cm 200 m each. Following this step the protein content is determined using bicinchoninic acid assay from Thermo Scientific. The specific allergen Ara h2 content in the prepared film is determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay from Indoor Biotechnologies.

Note the batch size and concentration of peanut extract are typical values to get minor differences in batch sizes and strengths of Ara h2 this basic formulation is scaled proportionally. The peanut extract is diluted with sterile water before adding to the final blend. Thus the strength is changed by the amount of peanut extract dilution with water.

In accordance with some embodiments various excipients can be used in accordance with of the present invention. The following Table 3 lists exemplary excipients used in a formulation for the clinical trials.

The function of each component used to make the peanut immunotherapy strip is described in Table 3. Processing aids used to prepare the drug product but which are removed during or following the subsequent process are indicated with an asterisk. In addition all components that are in the USP or NF are identified using the specified compendial test for the other compendial tests the manufacture s Certificate of Analysis will be used.

The process flow diagram for the manufacturing of a peanut immunotherapy film strip of the present invention is shown in . The film strips were made by a solvent casting process in which the formulation was poured into a series of disposable Petri dish molds. Once filled with the formulation the Petri dishes were placed in a leveled convection oven until dry. The solvent casting procedures involve the three steps shown in .

Ara h2 concentrations were assayed using Indoor Biotechnologies Rabbit anti Ara h 2 PA AH2 ELISA assay. Assays were performed at Indoor Biotechnologies. The product assay limits were 80 120 of the labeled amount. For the film strips 1 and 2 the protein content was below the limits of detection of this assay. These films were assayed to ensure that the content was below the assay limit approximately 0.008 mcg Ara H2 .

An open label non blinded phase I trial was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a new formulation of peanut protein immunotherapy for treatment of peanut allergy in peanut allergic adults is provided. Initially 5 non peanut allergic subjects at Johns Hopkins Hospital were enrolled for an accelerated pilot safety study. These subjects had an initial screening visit that included informed consent medical exam and history and if they were eligible for the study an initial dose escalation. They continued home daily dosing with the study product and then will return approximately one week later for further dose escalation. They continued home daily dosing for an additional three weeks. At the completion of the study they had a medical examination and daily home diaries will be returned and reviewed. There were no side effects reported except for dry mouth. Permission was given by FDA to proceed with the phase I II study of peanut allergic subjects.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

