---

title: Correlating video quality with video playback view
abstract: Video streaming is delivered through a communication network to one or more client computing devices/systems. A number of video display or bandwidth control profiles are used in part to control an amount of bandwidth used by each client to stream video at various quality levels or audio-only. Video display profiles can be configured according to a particular device/system being used to stream video.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253229&OS=09253229&RS=09253229
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 09253229
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130107
---
As communication networks and video transmission techniques continue to advance video streaming capability has enabled users to view live and pre recorded broadcasts such as on demand television series sporting events and other video events using devices such as smartphones tablet computers and laptop computers. However transmitting video can be costly in terms of consuming large amounts of bandwidth which may lead to an unacceptable video streaming experience. Routine maintenance and testing of network equipment such as routers hubs switches bridges and cabling is recommended to provide a quality streaming experience.

Data usage is the amount of data sometimes referred to as bandwidth that customers consume when sending receiving downloading or uploading information. Customer data usage may encompass the transmission of images personal videos streaming video movies photos online time call time application and system updates etc. Packet switched networks such as the Internet wireless communication ADSL and CATV provide infrastructure that enables video streaming operations.

The widespread use of content distribution networks CDNs are utilized in attempting to efficiently provide content to requesting clients. Currently there is not a mechanism in place to manage data bandwidth for streaming video while a customer has lost focus while watching streaming video either by reducing the size of a playback window or sending a media player to the background. Unfortunately the same amount bandwidth is consumed regardless of the user focus. By allocating unnecessary amounts of bandwidth a service provider may find difficulty in maintaining service quality across a customer base.

To overcome the limitations described above and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification.

Embodiments provide for controlling and or managing video streaming operations based in part on aspects of a communication network and or a video playback view or window wherein a number of video display profiles are used in part as a mechanism for adjusting video streaming parameters but the embodiments are not so limited. A method of an embodiment operates to control a delivery of video over an IP network to a user device system wherein the method is configured in part to adjust video transmission parameters based in part on the network conditions and or a size of a video playback window being displayed with a user device system. The method of an embodiment accounts for video playback view resizing operations in part to control the quality of delivered video and or audio by dynamically adjusting the communication bandwidth used to stream content including video to consumers.

In another embodiment a system includes at least one server for delivering video to IP enabled components and is configured to adjust transmission parameters based in part on network conditions and or a size of a media player video window. The system of an embodiment is configured to adjust the transmission rate to a lower or a higher rate as a user resizes a viewing window from one size to another.

A computer readable medium of an embodiment includes instructions that operate to deliver video over an IP network to a device system using a bandwidth control algorithm that uses a number of video display profiles to account for video playback conditions including network conditions user actions sizes and or configurations of a video playback window etc. The computer readable medium includes instructions executable by a processor to control and or adjust video streaming parameters as a user interacts with a video playback window.

These and various other advantages and features of novelty are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and form a part hereof. However for a better understanding of the disclosed embodiments the advantages and the objects obtained reference should be made to the drawings which form a further part hereof and to accompanying descriptive matter in which there are illustrated and described specific examples of the disclosed embodiments.

The client server communication architecture can include wireless and or wired communication components as used in the art today. For example a cable or other service provider can use components of the client server communication architecture as part of delivering video over IP to subscribing customers. As a current subscriber offering video over IP network infrastructure allows a service provider to provide services such as allowing subscribers to watch live television on a user device such as a tablet computer smartphone or other video capable device.

The server of an embodiment includes a bandwidth control algorithm or component configured to control and or manage amounts of available bandwidth allocated to clients or other components. The server also includes a number of video display profiles that can be pre generated or dynamically generated based in part on a type of a requesting device system. The server can provide one or more video display profiles to the client at various times including at login and or as a device configuration changes or upon some other instance.

Each client can store any corresponding video display profile locally or remotely for accessing during video streaming operations using a video application or other functional video playback component and video playback view or window . For example one or more end users can use a video streaming application to stream live television events and pre recorded videos at a household or business at one time. Parameters of each video display profile can be used to control an amount of bandwidth used by each user based in part on the size and or configuration of a video playback view or window as described below. While one client and server are shown in it will be appreciated that a complex communication network includes a number of associated network enabled components including hardware and software components that can include a plurality of networked servers routers switches modems and or client devices systems.

As described briefly above components of the exemplary communication architecture can be used to manage communication traffic and or network bandwidth as users stream video to one or more user devices systems but are not so limited. For example components of the communication architecture can be configured to manage and control delivery of on demand cable and television services including providing video over an IP network to any compatible user device system such as smart televisions tablet computers and smartphones to name a few examples having compatible video playback functionalities.

As described briefly above components of the communication architecture can use one or more video display or bandwidth control profiles in part to dynamically adjust the communication bandwidth used by video consumers to stream video to one or more user devices systems. Depending in part on network conditions and particular device system type s and or display configuration s video display profile parameters can be used to dynamically control bandwidth usage as the user adjusts a size of the video playback window opens other windows or applications moves the video playback window to the background minimizes the video playback window loses focus on the video playback e.g. leaves the viewing area uses another application etc. or the like.

The client can use video display profiles to adjust video quality based in part on the profile information that includes video streaming bit rate parameters to use according to one or more of current network congestion information and or a size and or configuration of the video playback window and or some other criteria. For example information associated with a video display profile can be used to dynamically decrease and or increase a communication bit rate as a user adjusts video playback adjusts a size of a window or view displaying video stops streaming video while continuing to stream audio and or stops video and audio based on the customer behavior as part of managing amounts of available communication bandwidth used for streaming and or other operations.

As an example different video display profiles can be provided and or used based in part on a device and or display type network conditions e.g. congestion packet loss etc. available bandwidth amounts and or a size and or configuration of a video playback window or other interface. For example a video display profile can include different communication bit rates to be used dynamically as a user resizes and or otherwise interacts with a video playback window or other associated window. Different video display profiles can be configured to operate with a particular device or system. For example a tablet computer may use different video display profiles as compared with a laptop computer or a smart television that include different communication and or display functionalities.

According to an embodiment the client can be configured to provide feedback parameters regarding device type and or configuration information display type and or configuration information and or other information such as display parameters associated with a video playback window e.g. current size e.g. horizontal and or vertical parameters in focus partially occluded etc. to an associated platform content delivery network CDN server or other component to use when identifying video display profiles as part of controlling adaptive bit rate communication parameters. In one embodiment once device and or display information is known the server can package and send several video display profiles for use by a particular device system type and or video display application and or other component to manage streaming operations.

The client of an embodiment can be configured to select a correct video display profile from several different profiles based in part on network congestion available bandwidth and or aspects of a video playback window or associated component and dynamically adjust a bit rate used to stream the video. The bit rate adjustments can be made locally by the client or controlled remotely by the server . For example as a customer changes a media player window size the video display profiles can be used to change the adaptive bit rate according to the window size and the network bandwidth or congestion.

Thus based in part on use and configuration of the video display profiles demand on the network may be reduced and streamlined by using parameters of one or more video display profiles to adaptively adjust a streaming bit rate based on a current and or modified window size. The architecture provides a mechanism that allows for continuous feedback to a back office or other component from the client and enables video quality adjustments based on a video playback window configuration and or user status. For example a customer that adjusts a video playback window to a smaller size has probably lost interest in watching high quality video such that corresponding parameters of a video display profile can be used to reduce the video streaming bit rate since the customer may be opening other windows shifting focus to another application or interested in listening to audio rather than watching the video.

As part of managing allocations of communication bandwidth parameters of the video display profiles network congestion profiles and or other profile types can be used in part to adjust the bit rate to a lower or a higher value based on what the user is doing in relation to video playback. For example the server may provide five different video display profiles to manage delivery of a video stream to a user s tablet computer including one audio only profile and four different video streaming bit rate profiles. The five video display profiles may be generated on the assumption that a video playback window is initially maximized and or there is little or no network congestion and or stable network conditions.

According to certain embodiments network congestion profiles can be created integrated and or used to manage streaming and other network operations according to particular network conditions. Additionally screen size or display size profiles can also be used to dynamically adjust the streaming bit rate according to a fixed screen size or display size of a particular playback device. As an example a screen size profile can be implemented as part of a user flicking moving action to move video playback from a first viewing device e.g. a tablet screen to a second viewing device e.g. a smart television screen . A screen size profile associated with the dimensions of the smart television screen can be used after the move flick operation.

In accordance with one embodiment a weighting algorithm or real time modeling method can be used to control streaming parameters according to a weighted combination of two or more streaming control profiles e.g. network congestion profile s window size profiles s screen size profile s etc. . For example assume that network congestion occurs at the same time as a user changes the size of a playback window which causes a network congestion profile to be flagged for use along with a window size profile. Depending on the implementation preference a statistical method can be used to reflect changes in the window size and bandwidth congestion wherein a higher weight can be used for the network congestion profile than for the window size profile e.g. adjust the bit rate based on 70 dependence on bandwidth and 30 dependence on window size . In an embodiment display profiles can be generated and used that include multiple parameters including screen size window playback size and or network congestion parameters rather than implementing multiple different profile types.

As the customer reduces the video playback window size a video display profile can be selected for the changed window size that includes a streaming bit rate that is less that the bit rate used for a larger or maximum window size assuming that network conditions are unchanged or stable. Accordingly the video quality can be controlled to drop one or more profile levels until an audio only profile is used as the customer changes the video playback window size. In similar fashion if the customer puts the player in the background or minimizes the player then the audio only profile can be used to consume a relatively small amount of bandwidth and thereby reduce unnecessary use of available bandwidth.

Rather than or in addition to the server using the bandwidth control component to control video playback quality parameters the client of an embodiment can be configured to automatically adjust and change video quality or adjust the bit rate based in part on an associated size of a video playback window. The client of one embodiment can also be configured to dynamically and automatically downshift to a lower bit rate using a locally stored video display profile or select a different video display profile having even more constrained bit rate thresholds when a video playback window is reduced from one size to a smaller size. The server of an embodiment can be configured as an application server that can be used to generate and or provide the video display profiles that include adjustable bit rate and or video quality parameters.

Additionally the video display profiles can be used to reduce the bit rate when a customer opens more than one window and the video playback window loses focus because there are other windows open on the top of the video playback window or the media player window is partially covered or occluded by other windows then a lower video quality can be provided by dropping to a lower bit rate video display profile. Thus the client can be configured to use a video display profile to adjust and change video quality or an adjusted bit rate based on the window focus even if the size has not been changed e.g. user is using another input device e.g. keyboard camera mouse etc. or application etc. . Window focus configuration and other detection methods can be included as part of the functionality of a client video application or any other available operating system or other component.

Video display profiles can also be used for detection methods that utilize a camera or other detection device integrally disposed or coupled to the client . For example if the camera is on and video is playing in a media playback window then the video application can be configured to detect through the camera the focus of a user watching video. If the user is fully engaged watching video then the video application can use a video display profile to allocate a maximum amount of available bandwidth for a particular device accounting for any network congestion. If the camera is used to detect that the user is losing focus or has moved away from the device then the video application can be configured to select a video display or quality profile depending on the behavior of the customer. For example if the customer is not watching video and left the room then the video application can identify and select an audio only profile to use until the user returns to the viewing area.

With continuing reference to the server of an embodiment uses the bandwidth control component in part to control video streaming operations using parameters of a number of video display profiles but is not so limited. For example the server can use parameters of a particular video display profile to control the bit rate for streaming video based in part on a corresponding device system type. Video display profiles can be generated to include video window size to bit rate correlations that can be used to control amounts of available bandwidth allocated and or used by each client.

As an example a video display profile can be generated for a tablet computer that defines streaming parameters or a range of streaming parameters e.g. bit rates to use by the tablet computer when streaming the video wherein the bit rates e.g. high to low correspond with the window size or orientation of the video playback window. As another example a subscriber can request and stream live television to a video playback window of the tablet computer using a wireless network wherein a video display profile for the tablet computer can be used to control the video stream as the user resizes or otherwise interacts with the tablet computer. If a user shifts focus to another application or leaves the area a video display profile that includes a lower bit rate can be used e.g. or just audio to reduce the streaming load on the network and thereby conserve bandwidth.

The server can be configured to maintain and or provide one or more video display profiles based in part on subscriber device types e.g. smart television smartphone tablet desktop laptop etc. and or subscription plans since subscription types can be tailored to allow for better quality of service than others. It will be appreciated that dedicated components other than or in addition to the server of the exemplary communication architecture can be used to authenticate and or provide other services in conjunction with video streaming capabilities. The server of an embodiment is configured to use the bandwidth control component and or bit rate control parameters of the video display profiles to allocate and or control video streaming bit rates used to display video using a media video browser or other video playback mechanism.

The video display profiles see for example can be generated to include for example a video streaming bit rate limit or range of bit rates that correlate with aspects of a video display such as whether the video display or view is occluded partially occluded resized not being used etc. For example a video playback window of a media player may open with default horizontal and or vertical dimensions when a user plays a video. As the user resizes the video playback window the server can use the bandwidth control component and parameters of a corresponding video display profile to change the streaming bit rate such as by increasing the rate or decreasing the rate so that a more efficient distribution of the bandwidth is maintained. Thus issues associated with using more data bandwidth for streaming video while a customer resizes the video playback to a smaller size window.

As shown in the exemplary video display profiles correspond to particular device types and correlate video streaming parameters bit rate with a range of video playback view or window sizes. For this example there are five video display profiles Profiles for a Model No. A device type. Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about ninety 90 percent of maximum size to maximum size which enables a video streaming rate at the maximum available bit rate. Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about seventy five 75 percent of maximum size to about eighty nine 89 percent of maximum size which enables a video streaming rate of two 2 Megabits per second.

Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about fifty 50 percent of maximum size to about seventy four 74 percent of maximum size which enables a video streaming rate of one 1 Megabits per second. Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about twenty five 25 percent of maximum size to about forty nine 49 percent of maximum size which enables a video streaming rate of zero point five 0.5 Megabits per second. Profile can be used for audio only playback when the window size is reduced below about twenty five 25 percent of maximum size.

It will be appreciated that a particular device may use many more video display profiles as compared with other devices. For example a smart television may include twice as many video display profiles as compared to the video display profiles implemented for a tablet computer. Likewise a tablet computer may include additional video display profiles as compared to video display profiles used for a smartphone. Video display profiles can be maintained using a master list and or distributed throughout a network according to user device types but are not so limited. Also while the video display profiles use window size correlations in part to adjust video streaming bit rates as described above and below other user actions can also be used to select and use a video display profile in order to efficiently allocate bandwidth. For example the bit rate can be adjusted depending on a user focus or lack thereof.

Continuing with the example of there are nine video display profiles Profiles for a Model No. B device type. Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about 90 percent of maximum size to maximum size which enables a video streaming rate at the maximum available bit rate. Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about eighty 80 percent of maximum size to about 89 percent of maximum size which enables a video streaming rate of ten 10 Megabits per second.

Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about seventy 70 percent of maximum size to about seventy nine 79 percent of maximum size which enables a video streaming rate of eight 8 Megabits per second. Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about sixty 60 percent of maximum size to about sixty nine 69 percent of maximum size which enables a video streaming rate of six 6 Megabits per second. Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about 50 percent of maximum size to about fifty nine 59 percent of maximum size which enables a video streaming rate of four 4 Megabits per second.

Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about forty 40 percent of maximum size to about 49 percent of maximum size which enables a video streaming rate of three 3 Megabits per second. Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about thirty 30 percent of maximum size to about thirty nine 39 percent of maximum size which enables a video streaming rate of 2 Megabits per second. Profile can be used for video playback window sizes of about twenty 20 percent of maximum size to about twenty nine 29 percent of maximum size which enables a video streaming rate of 1 Megabits per second. Profile can be used for audio only playback when the window size is reduced below about 20 percent of maximum size.

At the process operates to determine if an action necessitates use of an associated video display profile. For example the process at can use outputs from an operating system or other component as a result of a user action or input to determine whether certain streaming parameters are to be used to stream the video at various quality levels or provide an audio only stream. If the action necessitates use of a video display profile and is a resize operation the process proceeds to and operates to determine the amount of change or percentage of change as compared to the original or some prior size of a video playback window. For example a user may grab a corner of the video playback window and reduce the size in order to multitask wherein the resized dimensions of the video playback window are used for determining an appropriate video display profile.

At the process operates to select an appropriate video display profile or automatically implement streaming parameters of the appropriate video display profile based on aspects of the resized video playback window. For example the process at can select a video display profile resulting in a higher streaming bit rate if a user has enlarged the video playback window or to a lower streaming bit rate if the user has reduced the video playback window. In one embodiment at the process can use a server component to provide an appropriate video display profile using resize feedback from the client. Alternatively at a client can download video display profiles for a particular streaming device beforehand or on the fly and select the appropriate video display profile based on the resize operation.

At the process operates to adjust the streaming parameters based in part on the corresponding bit rate of the selected video display profile. In an embodiment the process at uses one or more server components as part of controlling and adjusting the bit rate based on the selected video display profile including compensating for network conditions. The process of another embodiment at can implement features of a client receiving device system to control the streaming bit rate locally using the selected video display profile.

For example a client computing device set top box modem or other component can be configured with a bandwidth limiter or other component used in conjunction with a selected video display profile to control the streaming bit rate. A bandwidth limiter enables traffic control and monitoring functionality and can be used to control download upload and or download communication rates and or limits for associated applications. At the process operates to continue streaming the video and or audio depending in part on the selected video display profile.

Referring again to the process at if the action is not a resize operation and the action type otherwise necessitates use of an associated video display profile the process returns to and operates to select or automatically implement streaming parameters of an appropriate video display profile based on the corresponding action. For example an audio only streaming profile can be selected by the process at as part of using a video camera whether integrated or otherwise coupled to detect that a user has left the viewing area or is otherwise unfocused on a video playback window. As another example the process at can operate to automatically use streaming parameters of a lower quality video display profile when a user changes focus by opening or using another application.

The process proceeds to to adjust the streaming parameters based in part on the corresponding bit rate of the selected video display profile. With continuing reference to the process at if the action does not necessitate use of an associated video display profile the process proceeds to and continues streaming the video and or audio. It will be appreciated that other types of video display profiles can be used including profiles that are built around network conditions accounting for delay jitter loss etc.

As shown in digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television such as a smart television for example for consumption by a cable television services system customer. HFC networks combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of subscribers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer or subscriber. The functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between a client side set top box STB and a server side application server according to an embodiment.

The architecture is configured as a distributed client server computing architecture for providing video and data flow across the HFC network from server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via the client side set top box STB or other component functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as a smart television set or other device for example. Modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand live video streaming and or information services.

On the client side of the architecture digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer via the set top box STB . The STB of an embodiment can be configured to be IP enabled and or otherwise configured to deliver IP television services to provide live video streaming capability for users to stream video to multiple user devices systems. As described above video display profiles for various user devices systems can be configured in part to control video quality as part efficiently managing network bandwidth.

Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the architecture likewise are provided by the STB . As shown in the STB of an embodiment is configured as a multipurpose computing device having at least one computer processor memory and or input output mechanism s and functionalities. An input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device system such as a tablet slate computer smart phone etc.

STB of an embodiment provides a filter interface for presenting filtered programming and or content via STB to the TV . While the filter interface may be implemented using a STB the filter interface may also be provided using a wireless device any type of network media device or any device capable of interfacing with a STB or in a server or other module on the head end side . Compatible devices may include DVRs wireless phones PCs laptop computers tablet slate computers media viewing devices or equivalents thereof.

The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set.

As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the architecture for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to a markup language such as Extensible Markup Language XML for example.

According to one embodiment the STB passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport. According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the architecture via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side to the server side via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the architecture using the HFC network to the STB for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . An in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 and 1000 megahertz. An exemplary signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink between the HFC network and the STB may comprise out of band data links. An out of band frequency range is generally at as a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side STB and the server side application server can be passed through out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the architecture is well known to those skilled in the art.

With continuing reference to the head end is positioned on the server side and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via television or some other client device system. As described above a number of services may be provided by the architecture including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content. An asset manager maintains content at the head end . The asset manager may also include a decision server for processing rules and other input to determine what content to provide.

The application server can be configured as a computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side STB via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the STB the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end for receipt and use by the client side STB . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for example and transmit to a customer through the HFC network and the STB . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the STB .

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted using XML and passed to the STB where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the STB .

According to various embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television or other session. The services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the architecture which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

As shown in the example of a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to various embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer.

The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems.

The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As will be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

The architecture includes IP enabled components that provide communication functionality including live video streaming features that utilize a number of video display or bandwidth control profiles to control amounts of available bandwidth consumed by streaming users but is not so limited. For example a subscriber can use a tablet computer to stream a live television event using a cable modem an IP enabled set top box or some other networked component without being unduly confined to any particular location in order to view the streaming event.

Users of the architecture can stream video using handheld devices set top boxes and other IP enabled devices systems. Compatible consumer devices systems can use a video streaming or other application to stream video for display using the device system display. As described above one or more video display profiles can be generated and or used for each device system as part of managing amounts of available bandwidth.

As shown in the exemplary communication architecture includes infrastructure for delivering and receiving the encoded video. For example the architecture includes a number server side components referred to as server side including video transmission and delivery components and consumer side components referred to as client side including video reception and display components. The architecture includes functionality to deliver high speed broadband data signals to end users. For example data over Cable System Interface Specifications DOCSIS a protocol elaborated under the leadership of Cable Television Laboratories Inc. provides an industry standard for two way communications over HFC cable plants.

The architecture includes an IP backbone comprising a packet switched network such used for the Internet wireless communication ADSL and CATV. The IP backbone can be used to distribute a rich array of digital content including video streaming to a variety of client applications. The exemplary network of is a distributed system that includes a plurality of servers dispersed throughout the distribution network to distribute digital content.

The exemplary architecture includes an application server digital rights management and encryption DRME server concurrency server content selection server CSS storage for storing information including video display profiles an origin server and a content delivery network CDN including cache but is not so limited. In addition to video display profiles user device system profiles can be used to track particular devices systems that have been used to access video content.

Thus video display profiles can be more efficiently provided to and or used by customers since the user device system profiles and or locations may be known beforehand or at the time of connecting to a video over IP service. The application server of an embodiment also includes bandwidth control features that can be used to control allocations of available bandwidth based in part on parameters of each video display profile being used by a client computing device system referred to below as client .

The architecture can be used to support many different types of devices systems wherein video display profiles can be used to control streaming parameters to each device system based in part on the type of user device system and or an action associated with a video application or video playback window. It will be appreciated that an IP enabled STB can be used to support the delivery of streaming video to user devices systems. For example IP enabled set top boxes can be controlled by a middleware platform located at a headend to provide linear IP video MPEG by encapsulating packets for transmission across the architecture . Video can be delivered using a cable modem termination system CMTS quadrature amplitude modulator QAM components or some other protocol.

The architecture enables broad access to content placed of a content delivery network CDN including content accessible by users via the Internet or some other network. CDNs typically function by receiving requests from clients checking a local cache for a copy of the requested resource querying the origin server if the requested video is not included in the cache or has expired for example and then returning the resource to the client and storing it in cache for use with future requests. CDN servers are typically strategically located at the edges of various networks to limit loads on network interconnects and backbones. CDN servers can be redundantly deployed and interact with other CDN servers to respond to content requests from clients in attempts to optimize content delivery. For example network edge servers can enable ease of browsing navigating and streaming of content including streaming live video.

The CSS can use information including metadata for linear and non linear programs for analyzing categorizing processing storing and linking with other available data for creating a linear program guide. Components can be operatively connected with a data hub for providing and receiving data in association with programming content and availability business rules profiles devices systems etc. The CSS may receive metadata for non linear programs content from the application server or other server as well as metadata from other service provider content sources such as Video On Demand VOD and other video content available through a network that includes a plurality of Internet content sources.

Additionally the CSS may receive customer s purchased content content available from a personal or customer cloud and or content from other service provider clouds. Content metadata may be categorized based on the availability and sent to customer s devices systems for maintaining or using the program guide data. Depending on the particular customer set up a customer may employ different networked components including a WiFi Ethernet network to receive video over IP including but not limited to a modem set top box cablecard game console DVR smart phone desktop laptop etc.

A typical implementation example may include a subscriber using a tablet slate phone smart television and the like to view video programming using a high speed Internet service a video streaming application and a DOCSIS modem eMTA or gateway. A WiFi Ethernet network can receive data and transfer data to an appropriate consumer device system via an IP enabled STB and also receive data from any device system for transmission to other components of the architecture . An exemplary IP enabled STB can receive content from a distribution or other network for displaying on a user device system and or feedback from the device system. It will be appreciated that there are different types of communication networks and associated components that can be used to deliver video and other content to consumer devices including smart televisions tablet computers laptop computers desktop computers etc. Compatible consumer devices systems can use an application to stream video for display using the device system display.

While a certain number and configuration of servers and other components features are described herein it will be appreciated that other embodiments and defined configurations for providing video streaming features can be implemented. It will be appreciated that some of the described embodiments include a collection of computing devices systems and data storage components operating at a single location as well as distributed computing embodiments where one or more of the components may be located at disparate locations relative to other components all of which may be coupled via a distributed computing network such as the Internet or an intranet.

The embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate via a multitude of computing systems including wired and wireless computing systems mobile computing systems e.g. mobile telephones tablet or slate type computers laptop computers etc. . In addition the embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate over distributed systems where application functionality memory data storage and retrieval and various processing functions may be operated remotely from each other over a distributed computing network such as the Internet or an intranet.

An example use case illustrates use of one or more video display profiles to control bandwidth usage by an end user. As described above video display profile parameters can be used to control a streaming bit rate used by the end user to view video at various quality levels or stream audio only. The origin server of an embodiment is configured to receive video information in the form of video files and or manifest files. For example an encoder can be used to encode source video into a number e.g. three four five etc. of adjustable bandwidth profiles sizes and output IP multicast to stream shapers that operate to encrypt and segment the video into file chunks e.g. ten 10 second chunks to continuously post and delete e.g. HTTP POST DELETE video files and or manifest files e.g. playlists to the origin server . In an embodiment the DRME server is configured to update video encryption keys e.g. Video Transport Stream TS encryption keys for associated stream shapers on some update frequency e.g. every 10 hours .

The origin server can be configured to wait for requests e.g. HTTP GET from the CDN to stream files to the client or multiple clients. For this example on startup the client establishes a connection with the application server to obtain configuration parameters and or a location of a dedicated authentication system which can be determined by an IP address associated with the client request. The client of an embodiment can be configured to open a session with the concurrency server upon launch to register the client and or release a content token as part of shutting down or some other stopping action. The client of such an embodiment can also be configured to open a session with the DRME server to obtain digital rights management and or token information at the time of launch shutdown and or for every channel change.

The user can enter login credentials to issue an authentication request to access video streaming services. After successfully logging in the client operates to open a session with the application server to obtain the user s line up and populate client guide data in an associated user interface. The CSS determines the correct channel line up and populates and updates the guide data on the application server e.g. update every 10 hours . Then the client determines a nearest or otherwise available CDN cache using a domain name system DNS assuming hosted domain and sends requests e.g. HTTP GET for manifest playlist and video files e.g. video transport stream TS format to begin streaming audio video and or data.

In one embodiment the client is configured to automatically select a video display profile to use based in part on a size configuration and or other aspect of a video display view. The client can be configured to use the best possible profile. As the user adjusts or performs some other action that otherwise affects the video display view the client can be configured to automatically select the correct or relevant video display profile to adjust streaming parameters. As described above video display profiles can be retrieved from the application server or other component and or stored locally based in part on a particular device system type and or video display view configuration. The example devices and systems discussed herein are for purposes of example and illustration and are not limiting of a vast number of configurations that may be utilized for practicing various embodiments.

Computing devices systems may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For the example of the computing device includes a processing system memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules.

The memory includes one or more computer readable storage computer storage or computer readable storage media capable of storing data and or computer executable instructions. Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor cause the application server to allow broad access to content placed on a content delivery network CDN .

In various embodiments the memory is implemented in various ways. For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data.

According to embodiments the term computer readable media includes communication media and computer readable storage media. Communication media include information delivery media. Computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism may be embodied on a communications medium. The term modulated data signal describes a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage medium may also refer to devices or articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface . In different embodiments the network interface is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users. The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs.

Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Moreover embodiments may be implemented such that each or many of the components illustrated in may be integrated onto a single integrated circuit. When operating via such a single integrated circuit the functionality described herein may be operated via application specific logic integrated with other components of the computing device system on the single integrated circuit.

A server may provide other services to client devices. As one example server may be a web server providing web services over the web network . Example clients include computing device which may include any general purpose personal computer such as computing device a tablet computing device and or mobile computing device such as smart phones.

Data input to the device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc.

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS system e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be utilized to communicate with a wireless or WIFI based positioning system to determine a device location.

Although described herein in combination with mobile computing device in alternative embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein. For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

