---

title: Agnostic execution cluster for an agnostic execution environment
abstract: The disclosed subject matter facilitates an execution environment in which services can be made available for use by one or more devices independently of such devices' hardware, operating systems, or run-time environments. The services can be abstracted and accessed by way of a Service Programming Interface (SPI). Execution environment devices can be members of one or more execution clusters and can interoperate by way of a logical bus, for example by contemporaneously signaling among member devices on an electronic signaling logical bus (ESLB). Signaling can be by way of event messages, which can facilitate distributed computing and/or agnostic execution behavior.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08732727&OS=08732727&RS=08732727
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08732727
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130611
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 783 474 filed on 19 May 2010 and entitled AGNOSTIC EXECUTION CLUSTER FOR AN AGNOSTIC EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 315 502 filed on Mar. 19 2010 and entitled MOBILE MIDDLEWARE PLATFORM. The entireties of the above referenced patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference into the instant application.

The disclosed subject matter relates to adaptive computer systems and more particularly to platforms for facilitating an execution environment often including mobile equipment in a wireless network environment.

Modern computer systems including mobile electronic devices within or without a wireless network environment typically employ a highly evolved operating system OS to execute software to accomplish computing tasks. Frequently programmers work within standardized runtime environments or execution environments layered over an OS to develop an application for an end user of a device. For example many modern smartphones employ a highly evolved OS e.g. MICROSOFT WINDOWS MOBILE 6.5 PALM OS GOOGLE ANDROID APPLE IPHONE OS 4.0 SYMBIAN OS etc. to provide much of the functionality of the device. Further for example applications are frequently written in well characterized and often competing languages e.g. SUN ORACLE JAVA ADOBE FLASH WEBKIT etc. that execute in a virtual machine type environment on various OSs to allow more uniformity of results for a particular application despite the particular flavor of OS the application is running on top of. For example a JAVA based calculator program can appear similar on an ANDROID based phone and on a WINDOWS MOBILE 7 WM7 based phone where both the ANDROID and WM7 phone support JAVA.

The use of applications in computing environments is greatly assisted by the use of runtime environment RTE programming silos e.g. JAVA FLASH WEBKIT etc. . The term silo is used herein to represents the paradigm that a program employing a specific RTE for example JAVA is generally exclusively limited to functionality supported in that same RTE i.e. JAVA and would not be able to access functionality from a different RTE for example FLASH . Thus the exemplary program running JAVA code can be considered to be effectively relegated to or siloed in a JAVA RTE silo. These RTE silos allow programmers to learn and employ specific programming languages that are at least in theory supported across a plurality of OS. Thus rather than demanding that each OS produce a similar rich set of functionality for the myriad of applications that could be made the task is shifted to the RTE developers. As such OS developers can focus on creating improved device functionality RTE developers can focus on leveraging the resulting improved OS to provide improved programmatic functionality and software application developers can focus on learning a RTE language to leverage the improved programmatic functionality to in turn produce improved applications within the particular RTE. Moreover because a RTE runs similarly across different OS environments the software developer need only learn and write in a small number of RTE languages to be an effective software developer for a large number of devices. It is worth noting that this specialization of labor is not exclusive to programmers that wish to develop software that is OS platform specific e.g. writing a program that directly interacts with an OS rather than executing in a specific RTE silo on top of some OS .

One facet of specialized RTE silos is that the RTE developers have become associated with or possibly had market success because of superior performance in a particular aspect of RTE programmatic functionality. For example ADOBE FLASH is highly regarded for visual effects the FLASH RTE can make available and easily accessible to the software developer. Similarly JAVA is much appreciated by software developers at least in part because of the ease of programming data structures and robust computation functionality. Where competing developers gained market share by developing specific strengths over their competition they were market encouraged to metaphorically build the walls of the silos higher and higher to defeat the competition by drawing a sufficiently large base of programmers into only their RTE product to gain access to the desirable features not offered by the competing RTE products.

A second facet of specialized RTE silos is that the silos are typically mutually exclusive especially where the RTEs are competitive technologies. As previously stated to gain market share RTE developers have historically resorted to development that more rigorously forces exclusive use of a single RTE for a developed software application. As such software application developers often are highly invested in a single RTE technology to the exclusion of other RTE technologies. This brand loyalty and robust silo business environment can be limiting to the quality of software products made available to users. For example a JAVA programmer may opt not to use a particular FLASH feature in an application because they prefer to do the balance of the programming in JAVA. Thus the exclusivity of the siloed RTEs for example can reduce the use of the FLASH feature even where said feature may be more desirable to an end user.

In mobile networks in particular user equipments UEs can run a highly tailored and evolved operating system to deliver a particular user experience e.g. APPLE IPHONE OS WINDOWS MOBILE OS etc. more so because the UE is often relatively inexpensive and frequently upgraded by end users. For example the IPHONE OS is currently experiencing major version upgrades on about a 12 month cycle IPHONE OS v1.0 June 2007 v2.0 July 2008 v3.0 June 2009 v4.0 June 2010 expected . Further the user experience can improve by employing a plurality of RTEs to give the user the best features of each RTE. However the siloed nature of RTEs and increasingly the exclusivity of specialized OS can result in a lack of support for entire RTE silos on a particular UE e.g. the IPHONE does not support FLASH on the IPHONE OS v1.0 through v4.0 . As such a mobile carrier can improve the user experience by providing an environment that facilitates access to functionality in different RTE silos and across a plurality of OSs.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject disclosure. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject disclosure.

An embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter can include a device that includes a memory and processor that can facilitate execution of instructions to perform operations including interfacing to a logical bus coupling the processor to a cluster of devices wherein the cluster of devices employs distributed computing to distribute processing of a task. The operations can also include determining information related to the cluster including determining identification information for another device of the cluster and further receiving via the logical bus a communication related to the task between an operating system of the other device and a runtime executed by the other device of the cluster. Moreover the operations can facilitate determining a ranking of devices comprising the cluster of devices based information relating to a functional capability of a device component to facilitate allocation of processing related to the functional capability. This can allow the operations to generate an event message for communication to the cluster via the logical bus wherein the event message identifies the task for distributed computation by another runtime executed by the device and the runtime executed by the other device of the cluster based on the ranking.

In another embodiment the disclosed subject matter can be in the form of a method. The method can include interfacing to a logical bus via a first device that is a member of a cluster of devices. The cluster of devices can comprise a wireless device and employ distributed computing to distribute processing of a task. The method can facilitate communicating with a service programming interface to enable access to a service by providing a programming interface for the system to access the service. Moreover the method can provide for receiving a ranking of devices of the cluster based on information relating to a functional capability of a device of the cluster to facilitate allocation of processing related to the functional capability. The method can also facilitate reading an identifier portion of an event message via the logical bus and based on the identifier portion and the ranking of devices reading the event message from the logical bus and accessing a payload of the event message.

In a further embodiment the disclosed subject matter can be in the form of computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium. The computer executable instructions can cause a system comprising a processor to perform operations include receiving from a logical bus communicatively coupling a plurality of devices an event message comprising an identifier portion and a payload portion. The plurality of devices can be configured for operation as a distributed computing cluster. The operations can further facilitate receiving from the logical bus a ranking of devices of the distributed computing cluster based on information relating to a functional capability of a device of the cluster. Moreover the operations can include determining content from the payload portion of the event message based on the ranking of devices and accessing a service based on the content by way of a service programming interface. The service can be unassociated with an executable of the system. The operations can then include executing the content with the service accessed by the service programming interface to facilitate distributed computing of a task by the plurality of devices comprising the distributed computing cluster.

The disclosed subject matter provides system s and method s for facilitating an execution environment in which services can be made available for use by one or more devices independently of such devices hardware operating systems or run time environments. Services can be abstracted and accessed by way of a Service Programming Interface SPI . The SPI related services can facilitate a more unified user experience across different user equipment.

Further devices can be added to or removed from an execution cluster of the execution environment wherein the devices of the execution cluster can interoperate by way of a logical bus for example an electronic signaling logical bus ESLB . Execution clusters can include one or more devices. The logical bus can allow the member devices of the execution cluster to signal the other devices of the execution cluster contemporaneously.

Signaling between devices of an execution cluster can be by way of event messaging on the logical bus. Event messages can include identifier portions and payload portions. Further the payload portions can include code segments. Event messaging within the execution environment can facilitate distributed computing for example by selectively distributing code segments by way of the ESLB to other member devices of an execution cluster for distributed processing by the execution cluster.

Signaling between devices of an execution cluster can also facilitate agnostic execution behavior for example between operating systems run time environments RTEs applications or combinations thereof. This agnostic execution behavior can include accessing services related to the SPI. For example an application in a first RTE can interact with an application in a second RTE through calls to SPI services.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer selector interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration and not limitation both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment UE mobile station mobile subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB home access point HAP and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that serves and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream to and from a set of subscriber stations or provider enabled devices. Data and signaling streams can include packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer prosumer agent and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components e.g. supported through artificial intelligence as through a capacity to make inferences based on complex mathematical formalisms that can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Aspects features or advantages of the subject matter can be exploited in substantially any or any wired broadcast wireless telecommunication radio technology or network or combinations thereof. Non limiting examples of such technologies or networks include Geocast technology broadcast technologies e.g. sub Hz ELF VLF LF MF HF VHF UHF SHF THz broadcasts etc. Ethernet X.25 powerline type networking e.g. PowerLine AV Ethernet etc. Femto cell technology Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP or 3G Long Term Evolution LTE 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or 3GPP UTMS Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA GSM Enhanced Data Rate for GSM Evolution EDGE Radio Access Network RAN or GERAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or LTE Advanced.

Further mobile wireless networks can provide wireless access to various communications services for UEs such as voice video data messaging content broadcast VoIP etc. Wireless networks can be short medium or long range covering anywhere from a very limited area e.g. a house to a very wide area e.g. a nation and can employ various wireless transmission technologies and standards e.g. UMTS LTE HSPA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Multi Carrier Code Division Multiple Access MC CDMA Single Carrier Code Division Multiple Access SC CDMA Orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA Single carrier FDMA SC FDMA IEEE 802.11a b g n Wi Fi IEEE 802.16e WIMAX Bluetooth ZigBee short range infrared free space optical etc. Additionally substantially all aspects of the subject matter can include other legacy telecommunication technologies not explicitly listed herein as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Modern electronic devices typically employ sophisticated operating systems OSs to leverage device capabilities in useful ways for end users through programmatic access. OSs are a well known aspect of almost every electronic device in our modern world. Typically these OSs closely track advances in devices to provide access to the most elementary and advanced aspects of a computer system e.g. leveraging advances in processors memory type volume video processing networking standards chipsets etc. . Programs can interact with the device through the OS. These programs are often marquis software products for companies for example MS Office from MICROSOFT ACROBAT from ADOBE MATLAB from MATHWORKS AUTOCAD from AUTODESK etc. Programmers of these types of software are often concerned with the requirements of each specific OS that the developed software must run under. This can be cost effective for some programs but can be cumbersome and cost prohibitive to smaller lightweight software programs that can often have substantially lower retail prices and thus narrower profit margins.

Smaller lower cost programs are often desired by end users. This desire is evidenced for example by the proliferation of apps for mobile devices small shareware and freeware exchanges etc. One drawback to the OS specific programming for these lower margin applications is that they often will only execute in a limited number of OS environments because the cost to port them to more OSs is prohibitive. This can restrict the eventual success of an application and can be a detriment to an end user with an unsupported OS on their device. One technique for overcoming the OS burden has been to develop runtime environments RTEs to allow an application developer to program in the RTE with the expectation that the RTE would run on multiple OSs. Further RTEs evolved to include programmatic areas of expertise. Application developers could then leverage these RTE features to improve the application in development and could more easily avoid the need to port for multiple OS environments.

As stated herein RTEs developed in a generally competitive environment that resulted in significant impediments to using features of a plurality of RTEs for a single application. Siloed RTEs generally do not allow the best features of each RTE to be available to end users simultaneously. The restrictive nature of siloed RTEs also alienates some device users within a community of device users. For example in a mobile carrier environment where a first UE supports a first RTE but not a second and a second UE supports the second RTE but not the first releasing an application employing the first RTE silo alienates the users of the second device. This can be cured by releasing a second application programmed to employ the second RTE silo but this can be cost prohibitive. As such the mobile carrier is not easily and cost effectively allowed to offer a consistent user experience across the wide plurality of devices available.

As such development of an environment that is agnostic with regard to RTE silos and OS environments is extremely desirable. An agnostic execution environment AEE can be deployed by a customer oriented entity for example a large mobile carrier with millions of subscribers a large computer manufacturer with millions of customers a chip developer with billions of processors being used by millions of customers etc. such that programmers are allowed direct access to device features access to OS features and access to RTE features without the imposed silo walls created by competition between the RTE manufacturers OS manufacturers or device manufacturers. An AEE can facilitate a unified user experience among a plurality of affiliated devices OS RTEs or combinations thereof. An AEE can facilitate access to the best features of a plurality of RTEs that are affiliated with the AEE. An AEE can exploit the consumer presence of the huge volume of customers e.g. buying power to cause competing RTEs and similarly competing OS device manufacturers etc. to play nice together within the AEE to gain access to the large consumer base. For example an RTE can become affiliated with an AEE by including RTE API elements allowing applications and or programs written for the RTE silo to access AEE service s by way of Service Programming Interface SPI Module s and an agnostic execution cluster AEC component as is more fully disclosed hereinbelow.

It is envisioned that an AEE can be functional across all types of communicative networks and technologies. As such as previously stated aspects features or advantages of the subject matter can be exploited in substantially any wired broadcast wireless radio technology and or network or combinations thereof. Additionally substantially all aspects of the subject matter can include other legacy telecommunication technologies. Where further information related particularly to Geocast technology can be useful to better understanding some aspects of the present disclosure U.S. Pat. No. 7 525 933B1 SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MOBILE AD HOC NETWORK ISSUED 28 Apr. 2009 is hereby incorporated by reference in the entirety without limiting the subject disclosure herein. Further communicative coupling in any modality is envisioned to include unilateral bilateral and or multilateral forms of communication as appropriate for any particular modality employed .

AEE component of system can be communicatively coupled to Operating System OS component . OS component can be communicatively coupled to device hardware component . As depicted AEE component can be communicatively disposed between A P component s including those running in a RTE silo and the OS component . As stated herein the term silo indicates that a program employing a specific RTE is generally exclusively limited to functionality supported in that same RTE and would not typically be able to access functionality from a different RTE. Thus for example a program executing in a JAVA RTE can be considered to be effectively relegated to or siloed within the JAVA RTE.

Whereas the AEE component can be disposed between a program by way of A P component and or a program in a RTE by way of RTE component and a device operating system by way of OS component and device hardware component AEE component can receive and generate signals over the communicative couplings. As used herein except where expressly otherwise limited signal is interpreted broadly to include any communication of information between or among two or more elements and by way of non limiting examples can include instructions commands interrupts heartbeat or monitoring information timing information and transfers of data modules code snippets parameters or any other information. In an embodiment AEE component can serve to merely pass through the signals and thus remain relatively invisible in a system. For example an MP3 player application can generate signal s for the OS that are merely passed through AEE component to the OS to cause the device to play a music file in response to a user action. In this example AEE component is present but has no noticeable effect on the functionality of the MP3 player application.

In other embodiments AEE component can be an interactive portion of system by reacting to received signals and actively generating signals to elicit desired responses from communicatively coupled components. For example an OS can send an audio alert signal for an alarm clock application through AEE component . AEE component can intercept the signal and prevent it from propagating to the alarm clock application for example based on a determination that the user is scheduled to be in a business meeting at that time. Similarly for example AEE component can generate a visual alert signal for the alarm clock application in lieu of an audio alert. While this is an overly simplistic set of examples one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that interposing an AEE component between the OS layer of an electronic device and the A P and or RTE layers can facilitate interaction with and or alteration of nearly every aspect of modern computing systems. It is within the scope of the present disclosure that AEE component can usurp all some or none of the communicative signaling between a device and software running on the device. It is further within the scope of the subject disclosure that the AEE component can communicate additional signals between a device and software running on the device based on criteria of which other components of system may or may not be given access to.

System can further include communicative couplings between A P component and OS component . Similarly system can include communicative couplings between RTE component and OS component . Moreover although not illustrated each of A P component RTE component AEE component or combinations thereof can be communicatively coupled to device hardware component .

In an aspect AEE component can be communicatively coupled to other system components in a manner similar to a middleware component as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. However it will further be appreciated by one of skill in the art that where the AEE component serves to facilitate an agnostic execution environment as is disclosed herein in more detail the AEE component departs significantly from traditional notions of middleware as a simple translation layer see e.g. Microsoft Computer Dictionary 5Ed. 2002 .

In an aspect AEE component can intercept communicative signaling intended for OS component from other software and hardware layers not illustrated in a manner similar to that of AEE Component in system . As such AEE component can assume none some or complete control of information passing to an electronic device OS. Further AEE component can generate signals that can be passed to OS component and to other software and hardware layers not illustrated . These signals interrupted processed generated or combinations thereof can cause an electronic device to act in manner consistent with a business logic layer and or a core logic layer.

In an aspect SPI component can represent a collective of business logic. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the term business logic generally refers to a set of rules or decision making criteria relating to achieving a particular goal or purpose which can be but need not be a business purpose from a particular state or condition. A wide variety of such goals or purposes are possible. Some illustrative examples include selecting a particular bearer path from a set of available bearer paths based on network congestion selecting a repository to store a persistent datum based on access speed adapting a user interface on a user device based on a known user preference sending a call to voicemail based on a user being scheduled for a meeting etc.

The term business logic is used in contrast to the term core logic which generally refers to a set of rules or decision making criteria relating to realization of and or implementing a process e.g. executing code signaling accessing information etc. to achieve a determined business logic. As a non limiting example a business logic determination can relate to deciding between an audio and visual alert based on the preferences of a user. In contrast the core logic can be related to generating the particular electronic signals for the business logic selected visual or audio alert on a designated device of the user at a designated time. Of course these simple examples of business logic and core logic are only intended to be illustrative and are not meant to be limiting. One of skill in the art will appreciate that both the business and core logics can be significantly more or less complex and all such levels of complexity for these logics are within the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. As a more complex non limiting example business logic can relate to generating landing sequence instructions for incoming air traffic at an airport based on spacing and timing rules and relating to criteria associated with passenger comfort levels flight path noise levels weather date and airplane fuel conditions among many others. Similarly related core logic can be associated with generating and presenting the appropriate instruction sets on the appropriate aircraft as they come into the airspace controlled by that airport e.g. accessing selected instructions on a database of instructions merging the accessed instructions into a deliverable instruction set passing the instruction set data over appropriate signaling pathways presenting them to a pilot on a selected display device etc.

One of skill in the art will appreciate that the service programming interface would not be confused with an application programming interface API . An API is well understood to be a programming interface related to a particular application environment. In contrast an SPI is an abstraction that describes an interface for interaction with a service or set of services used by components of an AEE. Unlike an API an SPI is not constrained to an application environment. In an aspect an SPI can allow access to services through an AEC component outside of the constraints typically associated with an API see for a non limiting example . In another aspect an API can serve as a means of accessing an SPI for example a JAVA API can offer SPI calls e.g. abstractions specific to the JAVA programming environment that interface with an SPI module to access service functions for inclusion by a JAVA application developer in a developed JAVA application. Extending this example a FLASH API can offer the same SPI calls e.g. the abstractions are specific to FLASH but interface with the same SPI modules accessed by the JAVA example to access the same service functions to allow inclusion by a FLASH application developer in a FLASH application. For example a JAVA based graphing calculator application and a FLASH based music player application can access a cluster member SPI module to gather information on the member devices for the cluster to determine what processor in the cluster is fastest for the JAVA computations and where a music metadata table is stored for the FLASH music player.

In some embodiments of the disclosed subject matter software providing access to service function s described by an SPI can be said to be module s of the SPI. SPI component can comprise one or more SPI modules in system . SPI modules within SPI component can be accessed for example though TCP and services ports e.g. TCP or UDP ports as shared libraries or by shared block memory etc. SPI modules can range from very basic and simple services to highly complex and detailed services. For example a very basic SPI module can simply accept a datum and store it to a location in memory. In contrast a very complex SPI module can track data related to a nationwide truck shipping fleet and can have service function calls ranging from arrival time information to fuel consumption to greenhouse gas generation and carbon credit computations among many more. Clearly having access to these types of services separate from any particular set of programs in contrast with an API provides tremendous leverage for the information and control these services can relate to as will be appreciated by one of skill in the art. Given that the nature of the SPI layer associated with SPI component and SPI modules can be highly complex the discussion herein is limited for purposes of clarity of exposition of the presently disclosed subject matter. Of course it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that other components can be substituted for or work in conjunction with SPI component without departing from the scope of the disclosed subject matter for example API components not illustrated can complement SPI component with regard to facilitating an Agnostic Execution Environment.

As illustrated AEC component can be communicatively coupled to SPI component in accordance with aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In an aspect AEC component can represent a core logic layer. AEC component can facilitate forming an agnostic execution cluster for an AEE in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure. In an aspect of the disclosed subject matter AEC component can facilitate determinations related to a signaling event e.g. signal interrupting processing generating or combinations thereof or a data access event e.g. writing data reading data pointing to data or combinations thereof . AEC component can comprise an object store component an AEC membership component an AEC event manager component or combinations thereof.

In an aspect object store component can be a persistent data storage component. Object store component can include a table with pointers to data that can be local remote distributed or combinations thereof. Further object store component can include data lookup modalities as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art and all such modalities are to be considered within the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Object store component can further include memory space for storage and access of data e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory .

In accordance with aspects of the disclosed subject matter AEC membership component can facilitate communicative coupling with AEC component . In an aspect AEC membership component can provide for self interrogation features that is features for querying and obtaining information as to the state and status of AEC component and or the constituent components thereof as well as AEC component services e.g. those accessible through SPI modules the device not illustrated and OS which AEC component is using or combinations thereof. For example AEC membership component can determine a device identification processor speed physical memory conditions network connection characteristics and performance data device capabilities camera video audio keyboard touch screen . . . etc. from a device hardware component not illustrated similar to or the same as device hardware component in system usage patterns user preferences historical data etc. from a persistent memory store such as object store component software applications available current user focus etc. by interrogating OS component etc. One of skill in the art will appreciate that many other different types of data can be collected and that all such information through a self interrogation is within the scope of the present disclosure.

In another aspect AEC membership component can select communication pathways among components within a device among components between different devices or combinations thereof. For example AEC membership component can select between a WiFi connection or a Bluetooth connection between a home theater device and a Smartphone device. In another example the AEC membership component can select to use both the WiFi and Bluetooth connections simultaneously for example where the smartphone is plugged in and battery drain is not an issue. Numerous other examples of communications pathway selection can be envisioned and all such examples are within the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

In a further aspect AEC membership component can facilitate access to metrics that can be employed by a network provider to designate to the UE a bearer path for information transfer. For example the AEC membership component can source information to the network provider that available WiFi connection is poor and a good 3G cellular service is available to a mobile phone device such that the 3G service would be better performing than the WiFi . In response the network provider can designate that the 3G connection be used by the UE where current 3G load is low and the user has a premium service package through the network provider.

As previously stated AEC component can comprise AEC event manager component in accordance with aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter. In one aspect AEC event manager component can facilitate signaling on an event signaling logical bus ESLB not illustrated . In an aspect electronic devices having an AEC component that share an ESLB can be considered members of an Agnostic Execution Cluster AEC as will be discussed in more detail hereinbelow see among others . In an accordance with an aspect of the subject disclosure AEC event manager component can read write to the ESLB such that other communicatively coupled devices can listen e.g. read or announce e.g. write events on the ESLB. For example AEC event manager component of a television can announce the name of the next television program on the ESLB. Where a digital video recorder DVR shares the ESLB the DVR can listen by way of an AEC component e.g. of the DVR to the announcement of the next television program to help determine if that is a television program that should be recorded for later viewing. Similarly where a smartphone shares the ESLB the phone can listen by way of an AEC component e.g. of the smartphone to the announcement of the next television program to determine if the phone should post an alert regarding the television program. Further the phone can listen for an announcement from the DVR that the television program is being designated for recording and in response can determine if that information should be posted in an alert to the user. Further where the phone DVR and television all share the ESLB through an AEC event manager component of the respective AEC components in each device these devices can be considered as an agnostic execution cluster. In an aspect an ESLB can comprise one or more listening components one or more announcing components communicative pathways therebetween or combinations thereof to facilitate logical bus behavior across an AEC. In an aspect logical bus behavior can be seen for example as being at least in part analogous to the behavior of a physical electrical bus in a computer system or network keeping in mind that whereas electrical signals propagate through a physical electrical bus virtually instantaneously that is at the speed of light logical signals can propagate through an ESLB at a slower rate wherein ESLB signaling can be subject to buffering latency translations propagation delays etc. such that signaling on the ESLB can be contemporaneous rather than simultaneous . An ESLB can as will be appreciated by one of skill in the art further comprise one or more security components privacy components buffering components prioritizing components or combinations thereof to augment the bussing behavior among associated AEC components.

In an aspect information written on or read from the ESLB by AEC event manager component can have an identifier portion and a payload portion. It will be appreciated that additional portions can be included in the written or read information for example reserve bit portions size indicating bit portions etc. In a further aspect the identifier portion can relate to a target source or type of information in the payload. As such the information can be routed to a specific target can be read by devices interested in writes from a particular source or can be read by devices interested in particular types of payloads. The identifier can be a predetermined size for example 16 bits 32 bits 64 bits 128 bits etc. Further the identifier can be inclusive or exclusive for example the identifier can indicate that all devices satisfying a condition should listen or all devises satisfying a condition should not listen. The payload can also be of a predetermined size or can be dynamically sized for example by including a payload size information within the identifier or designated bits of the payload itself. In an aspect the AEC event manager component can be ignorant of the payload content. For example AEC event manager component can present payloads that are data code snippets programs etc.

One of skill in the art will appreciate that the specific delineation of functionality among the object store component AEC membership component and AEC event manager component of the AEC component is merely for convenience and ease of comprehension. The functionality of the individual components as disclosed herein can just as easily be combined into a single component divided into more components or distributed differently among the illustrated components without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example the functionality of the network provider selecting a bearer path need not reside in AEC membership component as disclosed herein but could just as easily be embodied in a separate bearer path component not illustrated or within the object store component . As a similar non limiting example the self interrogation features disclosed herein could be embodied in a separate interrogation component within AEC component reside within object store component or be an SPI module within the SPI component among others.

In accordance with an aspect of the subject disclosure AEC can include devices to M to . In an aspect this can be associated with an ESLB not illustrated being shared among the member devices e.g. devices to M by way of AEC components to M to . An ESLB can comprise one or more communicative coupling modalities to extend a logical bus between AEC devices e.g. . A logical bus can be a schema that provides for addressable communication between electrically decoupled devices or device components. For example a logical bus can be a FIFO stack or any other logical means of queuing events that have an identifier and a payload. As another example a logical bus can be effected over a persistent storage medium. In a further example protocols such as MBus see Network Working Group RFC 3259 can be employed to deploy a logical bus. One of skill in the art will appreciate that any logical bus and indeed even some physical busses can serve to effectively cluster devices in an AEC in accordance with the subject disclosure. As such any logical bus including without limitation those having significant physical bus portions is considered within the scope of the present disclosure. One of skill in the art will further appreciate that an ESLB is but one possible means for clustering in an AEC and that any form of clustering is within the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Moreover while many particular examples given herein relate to the use of an ESLB for brevity and ease of comprehension of the larger aspects of the disclosed subject matter this should not be considered limiting in that other clustering methods can be substituted functionally for an ESLB with appropriate adaptations for any particular clustering technique . Moreover the term AEC agnostic execution cluster can be employed interchangeably with the term cluster without departing from the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter.

In an aspect an AEC can comprise one or more AEC components of one or more electronic devices. For example AEC can extend between Device to Device by way of an ESLB not illustrated employing for example a Bluetooth link to effect that portion of the ESLB. Continuing the example AEC can similarly extend between Device to Device by way of the ESLB not illustrated employing a WiFi link for example to effect that portion of the ESLB. Moreover AEC in this example can couple Device to Device by way of the ESLB not illustrated with for example an Ethernet ESLB segment. One of basic skill in the art will appreciate that the particular coupling modality or modalities used are irrelevant with regard to clustering between some or all devices in an AEC though it may bear on the performance of a cluster or portion thereof and as such all communicative coupling modalities are considered within the scope of the present disclosure. For example the ESLB can comprise peer to peer networking 3G or 4G i.e. 4generation cellular networks WiFi or other wireless LANs wired LANs WANs Bluetooth etc.

In an aspect the members of an AEC need not be in geographic proximity to each other so long as the devices can cluster e.g. communicatively couple for example by sharing an ESLB . In an aspect the delineation of a cluster can be defined at least in part with regard to communicative coupling between AEC members for example by which AEC members are sharing an ESLB. As such a particular device can be a member of one or more clusters. For example where a particular device shares one or more ESLBs that device can be a member of an AEC for each ESLB. Further for example a first ESLB can communicate to a second ESLB with or without the respective AEC devices being in the same cluster e.g. two AECs can merge and share a merged ESLB or the two AECs can remain separate and simply transmit a message between the respective ESLBs . In an aspect sharing an ESLB can be likened to listening e.g. reading for events being written to the ESLB. In a further aspect devices can be dropped from an AEC where communicative coupling is absent e.g. connectivity to the ESLB is lost and automatically rejoin the AEC when a communicative coupling is established e.g. connectivity to the ESLB is restored . Examples of this aspect can include spotty cellular coverage dead battery in an AEC device a device going into a sleep mode where the ESLB is not monitored IP Address conflicts radio noise etc.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure where AEC components to M can each interpose between the OS layer and the A P layers not illustrated on their respective to M devices intercepted communications between an A P layer and an OS layer on any device to M can be parsed and distributed among one or more of devices to M of the cluster . For example where a user changes a value in a computationally complex spreadsheet on a smartphone the AEC component can designate that the computations or portions thereof be executed on a replica of the spreadsheet at a desktop PC of the AEC. The values can then be updated at the spreadsheet displayed on the smartphone. This can relieve the smartphone of the need to do the complex computations on a mobile processor. Extending the example where one or more devices incorporating fast processors are members of the AEC the aforementioned self interrogation feature can for example facilitate a determination as to which processors to employ for the computation e.g. which device s has a current replica of the spreadsheet which device s is computationally most efficient which device s has the best connectivity to update the replica after the computations have been completed etc. . In a further example distributed parallel computation can be facilitated by parsing code with an AEC component e.g. to into subroutines to be run in parallel on various processors not illustrated within cluster .

In a related aspect as the conditions within an AEC change for example membership changes connectivity changes etc. the determinations as to delegation of functionality across components of the AEC can change dynamically. For example where a photo realistic rendering of a construction project is to be updated for viewing on a projector connected to a smartphone member of an AEC the update can occur on an office computer member of the AEC and the smartphone can be notified that the render has completed. However where the office computer becomes heavily taxed with other projects a portion of the render can be dynamically offloaded to be performed on the smartphone a portion on a home PC member of the AEC and a remaining portion on the office computer. A shared replica of the render can then be updated with the separately rendered portions and the smartphone can be notified that the render is complete. One of skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other applications of the dynamic allocation of resources or access to resources across members of an AEC are readily conceived and that all such examples are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Devices to of system can further comprise to M SPI components to . SPI components to can be sub components of AEE components to . Moreover SPI components to can each be the same as or similar to SPI components to of system or SPI component of system . SPI components to can be respectively be communicatively coupled to AEC components to as illustrated.

AEC can be communicatively coupled to another AEC either directly e.g. by Ethernet cable Bluetooth WiFi cellular radio etc. by way of a larger communications framework e.g. Internet cloud computing cellular network satellite link etc. or combinations thereof. In an aspect communicative coupling between AEC and AEC can facilitate communication between components of member devices for each AEC e.g. device components of AEC can be communicatively coupled with device components of ACE . In a further aspect communicative coupling between AEC and AEC can facilitate communication between the ESLB of AEC and the ESLB of AEC ESLB not specifically illustrated . In a still further aspect communicative coupling between AEC and AEC can facilitate communication between components of member devices for each AEC and an ESLB of the other AEC e.g. device components of AEC can be communicatively coupled with the ESLB of ACE etc. ESLB not specifically illustrated . In related aspect the devices of an AEC can be communicatively coupled to devices of another AEC without a communicative pathway being specifically designated between the respective AECs. These inter device communicative couplings can similarly be direct or through a communications framework e.g. communications framework . For example a member device of AEC can be communicatively coupled to a member device of AEC without any communicative coupling between AEC and AEC being specifically designated not illustrated .

AEC can be communicatively coupled to another electronic device either directly e.g. by Ethernet cable Bluetooth WiFi cellular radio etc. by way of a larger communications framework e.g. Internet cloud computing cellular network satellite link etc. or combinations thereof. In an aspect communicative coupling between AEC and electronic device can facilitate communication between components of AEC member devices e.g. device to and electronic device . In a further aspect communicative coupling between AEC and electronic device can facilitate communication between the ESLB of AEC not specifically illustrated and electronic device . In related aspect the devices e.g. device to of AEC can be communicatively coupled to electronic device without a communicative pathway being specifically designated between AEC and the electronic device . These inter device communicative couplings can similarly be direct or through a communications framework e.g. communications framework .

In a further aspect several hops between AECs electronic device s communications frameworks or combinations thereof can be employed to communicatively couple an AEC with another AEC and or electronic device. For example AEC can be communicatively coupled to ACE by establishing communication through communications framework to electronic device and from electronic device to AEC . As a non limiting example this can at least in part be embodied in a Geocast environment or other MANET environment . As other non limiting examples this aspect a can be embodied by a peer to peer network satellite linking linking through a radio controller in a cellular network cloud computing structures the Internet etc. or combinations thereof.

One of skill in the art will appreciate that in general the communicative coupling aspects disclosed with respect to system and other illustrated systems and methods function in a nearly seamless manner with existing and anticipated communications technologies. As such system illustrates that AECs members of AECs components of AEC members and conventional electronic devices and communication frameworks can be interconnected with a nearly limitless number of communication modalities. All such modalities and interconnections as explicitly described herein or not are considered within the scope of the subject disclosure.

In accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure device can comprise application . Application can execute on device by way of executing in a RTE running on OS by way of AEE component . As such application can be communicatively coupled to RTE and RTE can be communicatively coupled to OS by way of AEE component as illustrated this can be the same as or similar to system . In another aspect not illustrated application can run in the native OS by way of AEE component similar to or the same as system . Additionally application can be communicatively coupled to RTE OS or both without passing through AEE component not illustrated similar to or the same as in system .

In an embodiment where application executes in RTE through AEE component on OS AEE component can interact with application through RTE and AEE component can interact with OS in a manner similar to that disclosed elsewhere herein e.g. generate signals interrupt signals etc. . In an aspect AEE component can cause signals from RTE to be routed to OS across AEC . Similarly signals from OS can be routed to application through RTE across AEC . This can allow cluster processing of code associated with an application on any particular device of a cluster on other devices of the cluster. For example complex calculations for an application on a device with limited processing power can be parsed out to other processors on other devices in the AEC. Moreover AEE component and AEE component can facilitate translation allowing instructions between an application and a native OS to be converted to instructions for a target OS on another AEC device where devices in the cluster do not necessarily operate traditionally compatible OS environments. In a related aspect the translation can be effected by spawning emulators on a target device e.g. so that the target device emulates an OS compatible with the untranslated instructions and passing the untranslated instructions therethrough such that the code executes on the target OS i.e. in the emulator . One of skill in the art will immediately appreciate that there are numerous techniques for signal processing to generate appropriate instructions for a target device within an AEC and that all such techniques are within the scope of the subject disclosure. As such the AEC can be OS agnostic.

In a similar aspect device can include a plurality of applications to R to that can interact directly or through RTEs to R to with a native OS by way of AEE component . Agnostic behavior such as that implemented for OS agnosticism across a plurality of devices in an AEE can be similarly implemented for the applications to and RTEs to within a device or across a plurality of devices in an AEE. As such an application traditionally siloed to RTE can interact with application traditionally siloed to RTE by way of AEE component . Moreover applications on device can interact with applications on device across AEC also despite being siloed in a particular RTE. As such the AEC can be RTE agnostic and application agnostic. For example a graphing calculator application written in JAVA can compute the plot of a function pass that information in JAVA to a display application written in FLASH by way of AEE component such that the plot is displayed in FLASH. In an extension of this example where the computation is complex the processing can be offloaded from a first device to a second device of the AEC wherein the results can be accessed by the FLASH display application of the first device for display on the first device illustrating both agnosticism and cluster behavior. Thus an agnostic cluster can leverage the best or most applicable features of any device s of an AEC and can also access the best or most applicable functionality of any affiliated RTEs and or programs of an AEE e.g. an affiliated RTE can include development tools to access AEE services abstracted at the SPI layer .

Agnostic behavior can be effected by numerous techniques all of which are considered within the scope of the present disclosure. As an example an AEE component can spawn middleware type components to translate instructions between process and or OS environments. In another example AEE components can include middleware components to translate directly. An additional technique can be to create services that can be programmatically accessed through various RTEs for example to store data in a common data format or syntax etc. As stated previously the SPI layer can be implemented with sockets ports to services shared code libraries block memory writing etc. or combinations thereof. As such the SPI layer can serve to facilitate agnostic behavior within an AEC. For example a software developer can call on a service of the SPI layer e.g. SPI component or by including the service e.g. access provided for in the RTE development environment used to develop the application into an application executing in an affiliated RTE see also . The service software can reside in an SPI module of the SPI layer and can be considered independent of the application or the related RTE silo e.g. differentiating the SPI from a more traditional API . Thus this same service can just as easily be called agnostically from a different application siloed in a separate affiliated RTE. The exemplary service software in the example can be the same as or similar to an SPI module to of system . One of skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other techniques for effecting agnostic behavior can be employed efficaciously and that all such techniques are considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

Electronic device can be communicatively coupled to remote memory or other storage either directly or by way of communications framework . Electronic device can also be communicatively coupled to electronic device either directly or by way of communications framework . It will also be appreciated by those in the art that many alternate connections between some or all of the illustrated components of system can be selected without departing from the scope of the subject disclosure for example object store component can be directly coupled to system memory rather than sharing system bus . Further those in the art will appreciate that alternative organizations of some or all of the illustrated components and or the inclusion of more or fewer components also does not depart from the scope of the present disclosed subject matter. As illustrative non limiting examples object store can itself further include separate memory components electronic device can include a plurality of processor components object store component can be external to electronic device e.g. being a distributed component residing on a cloud service etc. a privacy component can be included in electronic device etc.

In an aspect object store component can be the same as or similar to object store component of system . Object store component can facilitate persistent storage. Further object store component can include security features privacy features encryption features or combinations thereof to protect and safeguard stored information. For example object store component can include a firewall and can be encrypted. In an embodiment in accord with the disclosed subject matter object store component can include pointers to memory locations that are local or remote to facilitate persistent storage of information. One of skill in that art will appreciate that alternative identifiers other than pointers can be employed to facilitate access to stored information without departing from the scope of the disclosed subject matter e.g. physical or logical memory addresses tables etc. Further object store component can include the physical memory storing information. In an aspect object store component can facilitate memory persistence and access to information across communicative couplings. As such object store component can further include decision making components not illustrated to aid in persisting data. For example object store component can include a table of frequently accessed information. This table can be employed in synchronizing a replica of the frequently accessed data on for example local system memory in addition to remote memory . This replica can for example facilitate more rapid access to the information on a consistent basis or where the communicative coupling to memory is severed can provide access to the information as current as when the last synchronizing event occurred. The exemplary synchronizing of replica data can include other features such as data collision resolution transport security etc. One of skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other examples of components for effectively managing persistent data are possible and that all such examples would be within the scope of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments such as those wherein electronic devices is part of an AEC object store component can facilitate AEC persistent storage. AEC persistent storage can include persistent storage within the AEC e.g. the cumulative memory of devices comprising the AEC can be managed by one or more object store components of the devices in the AEC persistent data without the AEC e.g. other AECs cloud memory remote memory etc. or combinations thereof. As non limiting examples in an AEC with a plurality of electronic devices object store components can act cooperatively to manage persistent data among the devices of the AEC by for example designating a first subset of object store components to manage persistent storage within and across the AEC designating a second subset of object store components to manage persistent data between the AEC an external or distributed devices or systems putting other object store components into for example an observation only mode etc. or combinations thereof. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that many persistent memory systems and methods are foreseeable in accord with AEEs and that all such persistent memory systems and methods are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Subsets of AEC components to and to can be communicatively coupled. These subsets can comprise some none or all of the various AEC components of system . For example AEC components to can be communicatively coupled. As another example the subset of AEC components to can be communicatively coupled and the subset of AEC components to can be communicatively coupled but with no communicative coupling between the two subsets. As a third example AEC components to and can be communicatively coupled. These communicative couplings can be direct couplings couplings across a communications framework couplings by daisy chaining etc. For example a first AEC component can be communicatively coupled to a second AEC component by way of an electronic device not illustrated with or without an AEC component such as in a MANET or peer to peer environment with a mix of AEE enabled devices and legacy devices.

AEC components to M to of AEC can each include an AEC membership component to . AEC membership components to can each include membership list component to interrogation component to membership QOS component to or combinations thereof. AEC membership components to can each further include object store component to AEC event manager component to or combinations thereof. In an aspect object store components to can each be the same as or similar to object store component of system object store component of system or combinations thereof. The AEC membership component e.g. to object store component e.g. to and AEC event manage component e.g. to of an AEC component e.g. to to etc. can be communicatively coupled.

In an aspect membership list component can facilitate identification of which AECs a particular AEC component may be a member of facilitate identification of which AEC components are members of a particular AEC facilitate identification of AEC components seeking admission to and or removal from an AEC e.g. by addition to or removal from AEC as illustrated or combinations thereof. For example AEC membership component can identify that AEC components to are for example members of AEC that AEC component for example seeks admission to AEC e.g. addition to AEC as illustrated that AEC component for example seeks removal from AEC e.g. removal from AEC as illustrated etc. In a further aspect AEC membership components to can each embody features that are the same as similar to or are associated with a Layer 7 to Layer 3 application switch for example a Big IP appliance from F5 Networks Inc. to facilitate for example a many to 1 service mapping or access environment e.g. many AEC components can be switched to access a single service of the AEC . It will be appreciated that information related to membership prospective membership or removal from an AEC can be leveraged in other aspects related to an AEC for example determining what AEC resources are available determining what communicative resources are available to an AEC through member devices etc. All such leveraged features are considered within the scope of the subject disclosure whether or not specifically enumerated herein.

Interrogation component can provide for system aspects related to determining information relative to an AEC or member current or prospective of an AEC. Interrogation component can interrogate an AEC or make available information related to the interrogation of an AEC for example interrogation component can initiate an interrogation of a member and or component of AEC . In a related example interrogation component can initiate an interrogation of AEC and all related devices. Further for example interrogation component can allow access to interrogation information related to the identification of the to M AEC components to access to information related to the number of AEC components e.g. M in AEC access to information related to hardware and software capabilities of the devices compromising the AEC components of the AEC etc. Further interrogation component can allow for self interrogation of devices of AECs or of all or part of an AEC. One of skill in the art will appreciate that nearly any device hardware or software information cluster information AEC services information port information shared library information shared block memory information communicative pathway information bearer path information historical information user preference information or combinations thereof can be collected and made accessible by way of interrogation component and that all such information is within the scope of the subject disclosure.

Membership QOS component can provide systems and methods related to forming determinations about quality and or level of service relative to AECs. In an aspect the QOS quality of service and or LOS level of service determinations can be made across an AEC within an AEC between AECs between devices of AECs between AECs or their devices and non AEC components or combinations thereof. QOS and or LOS determinations can be related to various performance metrics and can for example include processing efficiency memory efficiency latency jitter throughput data priority or any of numerous other performance metrics pertinent to the AEC or membership present or prospective thereof. For example membership QOS component can determine that for example a 1000 Mb sec Ethernet connection and a Bluetooth connection is present between a first AEC member and a second AEC member that the Ethernet connection is only 1 committed the Bluetooth is unused that historically the Ethernet connection is up 99.99 of the time and the Bluetooth connection is up 92 of the time and that the transfer of video content between a hard drive on the first AEC member and a display on the second AEC member is thus best accomplished over the Ethernet connection. One of skill in the art will further appreciate that many such types of determinations and information can be made or accessed and that all such QOS and or LOS determinations and information are within the scope of the disclosed subject matter. For example multiplexing and or bonding across network connections parallel processing of code segments among processors in the AEC scheduling of high demand tasks or information transfers battery life improvements or other numerous examples can be facilitated by membership QOS component .

One of ordinary skill in the art will acknowledge that AEC membership component can include more or fewer components than illustrated herein without departing from the scope of the disclosed subject matter. These components can include components associated with management of a network of devices forming one or more AECs. For example one or more conflict resolution components priority determination components collision resolving components replica management components AEC controller components etc. can be included as part of AEC membership component . In other examples privacy components security components preference components or the like can be included. It will be appreciated that these and other components can also be located in other disclosed components or as one or more separate components to facilitate the aspects disclosed herein. Further some or all of the components of AEC membership component disclosed herein can be embodied external to the AEC membership component without departing from the scope of the subject disclosure. For example membership QOS component can be embodied within object store component or communication framework . Further features of existing technologies can be adapted to facilitate certain complementary aspects of cluster management for example features from BAYOU a project from XEROX PARC in the mid 1990s see http www2.parc.com csl projects bayou Jini see Jini.org etc.

Electronic device can comprise object store component which can be the same as or similar to object store component of system object store component of system object store components to of system or combinations thereof. Similarly electronic device can include AEC membership component which can be the same as or similar to AEC membership component of system AEC membership components to of system or combinations thereof. Object store component and AEC membership component can be communicatively coupled to each other and to AEC event manager component .

Electronic device can further comprise an event signaling logical bus ESLB . As described hereinabove an ESLB can comprise one or more listening components one or more announcing components communicative pathways therebetween or combinations thereof to facilitate logical bus behavior across an AEC. In accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure ESLB can be communicatively coupled to AEC event manager component . Further system events for example those within electronic device can be associated with event signal read write ESRW or . ESRW to can be communicatively coupled to the ESLB . Electronic device can additionally be communicatively coupled to an external electronic device external memory or combinations thereof either directly or by communication framework in a manner similar to that previously disclosed herein with regard to communications framework or direct communications of system communications framework or direct communications of system or communications framework or direct communications of system .

AEC event manager component can include event read component event ID component event route component event write component or combinations thereof. Event read component can facilitate reading an event from ESLB e.g. by way of ESRW to . Event write component can facilitate writing an event to ESLB e.g. for access by way of ESRW to . One of skill in the art will appreciate that an ESRW can be a component for reading writing events to the ESLB . In an aspect ESRW components can be exceedingly simple and can simply represent an act of reading writing datum to the ESLB . However the ESRW components can also be more highly evolved to add functionality to the reading writing of datum to the ESLB . As non limiting examples of more evolved ESRW features error checking can be included virus scanning can be instituted the ESRW payload can be interrogated data priority can be evaluated etc. One of skill in the art will appreciate that numerous interactions with data read written to the ESLB can be effected by way of ESRW components and that all such permutations are within the scope of the present subject matter. In an embodiment an event can include an identifier portion and a payload portion such that an ESRW e.g. to can read write the identifier and payload to an ESLB e.g. ESLB . Similarly AEC event manager component can interact with ESLB to read write events comprising an identifier and payload portion. More complicated event data structures are well within the scope of the subject disclosure as will be appreciated by one of basic skill in the art.

Event ID component can facilitate forming determinations related to an identifier portion of an event read from or written to an ESLB . In an aspect ID component can access and or generate an ID portion e.g. an identifier portion identity portion identification portion etc. related to a payload portion of an event to be read and or written to from ESLB . The ID portion can be a predetermined size or dynamically sized identifier e.g. a fixed number of bits a sequence of bits with a terminus designated by a specific bit code a variable length bit sequence starting with a length indicator sequence etc. As non limiting examples the ID portion can be a 16 bit sequence a 32 bit sequence a 48 bit sequence etc.

In an aspect the ID portion can identify characteristics of the respective event. These event characteristics can relate to the contents of the payload portion to the size of the payload portion to the routing of the event payload to the prospective audience of the event e.g. what services devices applications etc. should listen for the event to the priority of the event to the security of the event e.g. virus checked Q bit status etc. or other characteristic of an event. One of skill in the art will appreciate that an identifier portion of an event can contain significant relevant information relating to the characteristics of the event e.g. the event itself and or to the payload of the event and that all such content is within the scope of the disclosed subject matter. As a non limiting example an event can have an identifier portion and a payload portion wherein the identifier portion indicates that the payload is for example 512 bytes has been checked for viruses and is intended for devices in an AEC with video display components. As a second non limiting example an event can have an identifier portion and payload portion the identifier portion identifying that the event relates to sensitive banking information that the payload portion has not been interrogated and that the total event size e.g. the identifier portion and the payload portion is for example 124 bits.

Various embodiments of the subject disclosure can employ the identified characteristics to facilitate processing and or routing of the event within an AEC with devices outside an AEC with other AEC or the like. In an aspect event route component can facilitate routing of events and or event payload portions based at least in part on identifier characteristics e.g. accessed by way of event ID component . For example where an event is identified as relating to secure banking information event route component can direct AEC event manager to read the event from ESLB the payload can be encrypted by processor the payload can then be transmitted by way of a secure protocol e.g. by way of I O interface component to a banking system computer e.g. electronic device by way of communications framework . As a second example where an event on ESLB is identified with an MP3 payload the event can be routed by event route component to AEC MP3 capable devices not illustrated by way of ESLB which devices can for example access the MP3 payload from ESLB e.g. by way of event signal read write to to play or store the MP3 content. In a third example where an event on ESLB is identified as a real time voice communication e.g. a telephone call it can be identified as being intended for communications devices within an AEC such that event ID component for a cell phone in the AEC can identify the payload and facilitate accessing the content on the ESLB e.g. passing the voice payload to processor component from ESLB through AEC event manager component . Where a device of the AEC is not a voice communications capable device event ID component can indicate that it is inappropriate to access the voice communications event.

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that where the ESLB is a logical bus a plurality of AEC event managers e.g. the AEC event managers from a plurality of devices of an AEC can contemporaneously access one or more events on ESLB . An ESLB can include aspects that are the same as or similar to a publication subscriber schema e.g. pub sub techniques . For example where there are two voice capable devices in an AEC an event identified as a voice communication can be simultaneously accessed by both devices for example causing both devices to ring in response to an incoming call. In this example it is noteworthy that the call can be directed to only one of the devices and that the AEC event manager of the target device can cause the incoming call to be written as an event to the ESLB such that the call can ring at any appropriate device of the AEC be routed to a voicemail system etc. Further in this particular example it will be appreciated that the incoming call can be answered at a device other than the target device e.g. the incoming call can pass through a target device to the answering device by way of the ESLB and in response AEC event manager component can initiate a process to transfer the connection to the answering device. For example where a call is targeted to a cell phone and passed to an AEC PC with VoIP capabilities the cellular network can be notified that the call should be transferred seamlessly to the VoIP device that answered the call to reduce the loading of the cellular network. As another example of contemporaneous event access documents and spreadsheets can be jointly edited by a plurality of users e.g. data collision features can also be implemented with or without a single master copy stored in a single device. As a further example of contemporaneous access as a user watching time shifted streaming video e.g. previously recorded content on a mobile handset enters her living room the TV there can begin streaming the same video content queued to the same time shift and the mobile handset can morph from a video player to a TV remote control device. These and all other examples of contemporaneous access to an ESLB by devices of an AEC are considered directly within the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter as will certainly be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In an embodiment in accord with the disclosed subject matter AEC can comprise an ESLB which can be shared among the devices of the cluster e.g. electronic devices to M to . In an aspect the portions of ESLB in each AEC device can be communicatively coupled by a communications path indicated by the dot dot dash line joining ESLB in electronic device with ESLB in electronic device M and communications path can be for example considered to be part of ESLB . Wherein an ESLB is a logical bus that can be effected at least in part by native hardware in each separate device it is not intended that all portions of ESLB are physically identical rather ESLB can be continuous across the member devices of an AEC by way of the communicative links between member devices of AEC . It will further be appreciated that a communicative path can include daisy chaining through other devices for example where there are three electronic devices e.g. device A B and C device A can be linked to device B which can be linked to device C and as such device A can be considered linked to device C through device B without needing a separate communications path between device A and C. It will further be appreciated that device B can be but need not be AEC enabled e.g. can but need not comprise an AEC component .

Wherein ESLB is accessible across the electronic devices e.g. electronic devices to of AEC events can be written read to from the ESLB contemporaneously. For example an event on ESLB can be read at each of the to M electronic devices to contemporaneously e.g. by way of ESRW in electronic device and by way of ESRW in electronic device M . Similarly for example where ESRW writes an event to ESLB AEC component and AEC component M can contemporaneously access the event on the ESLB .

It is anticipated that latency can occur on ESLB and or across communications path s within an AEC e.g. where AEC members are physically distant have limited bandwidth communications pathways uni directional communications systems require a plurality of hops between portions of an ESLB etc. and embodiments of ESLB can be adapted to address such latency with the intent of the logical bus allowing access to the ESLB events contemporaneously. For example time stamps prioritization of ESLB traffic employing a centralized event queue severing of overly latent devices from an AEC dynamic reduction of an AEC membership adding additional devices to an AEC to construct faster communications paths dynamic expansion of an AEC membership or many other methods can be employed to keep the ESLB acting like a bus . All such techniques are considered within the scope of the subject disclosure as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. Further it is expected that dedicated ESLB hardware components can be incorporated in future devices to improve ESLB performance across a plurality of devices in an AEC for example a dedicated high speed communications link. It is further envisioned that imposition of ESLB latency classes can be effected to stratify ESLB access between devices. As such devices burdened with high latency can be relegated to a slow ESLB status and related devices can access the ESLB at a slower interval as compared to a fast ESLB status family of devices that have low latency. For example devices interconnected by gigabit Ethernet connections can be classed as fast ESLB e.g. PCs in a gigabit LAN while devices that employ IR transmission of data can be classed as slow ESLB e.g. legacy PDA devices .

In an aspect ESLB can be contrasted with ESLB in system . ESLB as discussed at length can be shared among the members of AEC while ESLB can be local to electronic device only. As such ESLB can be considered to be shared in a single member AEC not illustrated comprising only AEC component M 1 of electronic device M 1 . In an aspect an AEC can comprise one or more AEC enabled devices a single AEC enabled device can be a member of one or more AECs e.g. a single AEC enabled device can be a member of a Personal AEC and a Work AEC simultaneously while keeping the two AECs distinct and separate etc. . In an aspect communication between AEC or the members thereof and ESLB can be effected without dynamic expansion of AEC membership. That is AEC and the AEC associated with ESLB need not merge merely because there is intercommunication therebetween. In another aspect dynamic expansion of AEC membership can be initiated such that ESLB merges with ESLB and the resulting ESLB is shared across the to M 1 electronic devices to within resulting AEC e.g. AEC now includes electronic device M 1 as a member . AEC can then divest itself of electronic device M 1 in a dynamic manner. As such business logic can be applied to determining the most efficacious intercommunications schema e.g. separate intercommunicating AECs transitory merging of AECs with inherent intercommunication paths goal driven merging of AECs with inherent intercommunication paths event driven merging of AECs with inherent intercommunication paths predetermined term merging of AECs with inherent intercommunication paths etc. .

One of skill in the art will appreciate that sharing an ESLB among members of AEC communicating between a plurality of AEC communicating between AEC and non AEC devices or combinations thereof can provide for distributing many aspects of modern computing in a novel manner throughout dynamically adapted clusters of devices that can be agnostic to OS and or to affiliated RTEs. One of skill in the art will further appreciate that numerous permutation of the disclosed subject matter are possible and that all such permutations or configurations are considered within the scope of the present disclosure even where not explicitly recited for brevity and succinct disclosure.

Various aspects of the subject disclosure can be automated through artificial intelligence AI methods to form suitable inferences e.g. reason and draw a conclusion based upon a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios . As non limiting examples a suitable inference can relate to dynamically adapting the membership of an AEC inferring an best routing of an event on an ESLB selecting a most efficient distribution of computation tasks across an AEC forming a set of criteria relating historical usage with best practices for persisting data in dynamic AEC membership pools or the like. Artificial intelligence techniques typically apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm or reinforced learning to a data set e.g. the collected AEC membership criteria in the case of dynamic AEC membership conditions. In particular one of numerous methodologies can be employed for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed. For example Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models can be employed. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation also can be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies or fuzzy logic methodologies also can be employed alone or in combination.

In view of the example system s described above example method s that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example one or more example methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methodologies. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described example method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination with each other to accomplish one or more aspects herein described. It should be further appreciated that the example methods disclosed throughout the subject specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture e.g. a computer readable medium to allow transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory.

In accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter an SPI module which can be the same as or similar to SPI modules to of system etc. can embody business logic and can form and write events to an ESLB which can be the same as or similar to ESLB of system etc. These events can facilitate achieving the goal s or purpose s of a business logic. For example where an SPI embodies services sub routines etc. related to determining the location of airplanes in flight patterns near airports an event can be written to an airport AEC ESLB that has an identifier and a payload portion. The exemplary event can identify as containing flight traffic class data for an identified flight number. The payload of the exemplary event can for example contain a flight identifier a plane identifier captain s name present heading GPS location speed altitude and flight equipment status for the designated plane. Applications on electronic devices of the airport AEC can read the event from the ESLB to access the payload data.

Where an event has been written to an ESLB as disclosed herein members of an AEC sharing the ESLB for example as in system can read the event from the ESLB. At a first electronic device can read the event from the ESLB based at least in part on the identifier portion. This aspect of methodology can be easily related to electronic device of system wherein an app such as can write an event by way of AEC component to an ESLB not illustrated in . Where the selfsame device is also a member of the AEC it can generally read from the ESLB. As such where the identifier can specify a payload valuable to another application in the same device the other application e.g. can read the event from the ESLB within the same device for example to access the payload. In an aspect this can be viewed as a form of intra device agnostic behavior. Continuing the flight data example above where the specified airplane writes the event with the aforementioned identifier and payload portions a flight data recorder application of the airplane computer can read the event from the ESLB at where the identifier for example indicates that the event contains valuable flight data that the flight recorder application identifies as information that should be recorded.

Further where events on the ESLB can be contemporaneously accessed by devices sharing an ESLB at a second electronic device of the AEC associated with the ESLB can read the event based at least in part on the identifier portion. For example where an automated passenger information computer APIC shares the ESLB e.g. being part of the airplane s AEC the APIC can read the event from the ESLB for example to access the payload to update maps showing the position of the plane that are displayed on the seatback displays in the passenger cabin. In a related example the pilot s cell phone can be part of the airplane AEC e.g. permitted to join a private AEC based on employment with the airline and status as pilot such that for example a cell phone flight hours application can read the event from the ESLB for example to access the payload such that the application can update a captain s log with an in flight status. This information can for example then be transmitted from the cell phone to the pilots union and FAA tracking software to be sure the pilot does not exceed permitted flight hours per month etc.

Similarly at a third electronic device that is communicatively coupled to the ESLB can read the event. In an aspect reading the event at differs from reading the event at wherein the device at can be a member of the AEC and the device at can be a non member of the AEC. As illustrated by electronic device of system a non member of the AEC sharing the ESLB can be communicatively coupled to the AEC. As such the non member device e.g. device in system can read an event from the ESLB. As an example a taxi cab meter can be communicatively coupled to the AEC of the airplane through pathways provided by the FAA and the airport such that the incoming flight information can be read out to access the event payload in order to compute the estimated time of arrival of the flight and to notify the cab driver with a best time to return to the airport to meet the departing passengers.

At access to the payload portion of the event can be facilitated. At this point method can end. In an aspect reading the event can collapse into accessing the payload. In other aspects accessing the event may not provide access to the payload. As an example a payload can be encrypted or otherwise protected the payload can be portions of code for execution sub routines etc. or can be a pointer identifier to data stored in a memory that for example can be remote or distributed and can even be protected by the storage system. Thus where an ESLB can be accessed at and an event can be read at to at access to the payload read from the ESLB can be facilitated. It is anticipated that many privacy and security aspects will accompany access at and one of skill in the art will appreciate that all such privacy and security aspects are to be considered within the scope of the disclosed subject matter. For example where the taxicab computer reads the event e.g. with permission from the FAA air traffic control and the airline only portions of the payload can be made accessible to the taxicab computer. For example the pilot s name can be considered restricted information while the flight number heading and speed can be considered accessible information.

At an event written to an ESLB from a first execution environment e.g. a first RTE VM OS etc. can be accessed. This access can be predicated on a business logic criterion. For example a first RTE can write an event to an ESLB based for example predicated on the calculation of the payload being more efficient in a different RTE of the same device a different RTE of a second device that is a member of the AEC or a different RTE of a third device that is a non member of the AEC. The event similar to the event of methodology can include an identifier and a payload portion.

At an event on the accessed ESLB can be read from a second execution environment of the first electronic device. This can be the same as or similar to reading an event at of methodology . In an aspect this second execution environment can be a separate instance of the same execution environment but more typically can be an instance of a different execution environment. For example the first execution environment can be a JAVA RTE and the second execution environment can be a FLASH RTE. Thus at intra device agnostic behavior can be demonstrated for example in the graphing calculator example computations previously done in a JAVA RTE and associated with an event having an identifier portion specifying graphical display in a FLASH RTE and a payload portion with the data to be displayed can be read by a FLASH RTE. Other examples can as disclosed herein include other affiliated RTEs OS environments etc.

At an event on the accessed ESLB can be read from a second execution environment of a second electronic device. This can be analogous to reading at of methodology though it specifically is between a first and second execution environment. These two execution environments can be the same as or similar to those discussed with regard to reading at . A difference for reading at is that the reading occurs on a second device from the ESLB indicating that the second device is clustered with the first device in that they read from the same ESLB.

At an event on the accessed ESLB can be read from a second execution environment of a third electronic device. The third electronic device can be communicatively coupled to the ESLB see the discussion with regard to reading at . Non member electronic devices can access and read events from the first electronic device AEC ES LB. Further execution environment agnosticism can be effected with non member electronic devices at .

At access to the read event payload can be facilitated. At this point methodology can end. This can be analogous to the access at of methodology . In an aspect methodology illustrates that agnostic behavior can exist in an AEE in accord with the subject disclosure. One of skill in the art will certainly appreciate that methodology and similarly are extremely simplified to illustrate aspects of agnosticism and cluster behavior for methodologies associated with AEE. More complex methodologies comprising aspects of methodology and similarly methodology are considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

In another aspect the designation of a device to be added to an AEC can similarly be generated by the device to be added by an AEC member device by a device that is not a member of the AEC or combinations thereof. For example a device can simply request to join an AEC based for example on physical proximity e.g. devices within 25 feet logical proximity e.g. devices sharing a segment of a corporate LAN common ownership or account status e.g. devices having a common user affiliation with a common entity e.g. devices belonging to a common corporation or purpose e.g. location aware devices etc. . As a particular non limiting example a police cruiser laptop can request to join an AEC comprising other police owned devices within 50 miles of the cruiser location wherein those device also have accessed information related to a particular license plate number. In a further example AEC member devices can designate e.g. request and designate devices to be added to the AEC for example to provide additional services resources communicative pathways etc. . In a still further example a device that is not a member of an AEC such as a network controller can designate another device for addition for example other cell phones between an established AEC near the edge of a cellular network where cellular coverage is poor and cell phones nearer to a base station to provide additional communicative pathways by peer to peer hopping .

At a self interrogation can be initiated. This self interrogation can be of the AEC a designated device or a combination thereof. For example where a device is designated to be removed from an AEC a self interrogation of the AEC can facilitate assignment of processes resources persistent data etc. to other members of the AEC in anticipation of removing the designated device. In another example self interrogating of a designated device to be removed can be faster than interrogating a large AEC and where for example the designated device has no shared processes or utilized shared resources etc. removing the device will pose little impact on the AEC. As another example a device to be added can be self interrogating to facilitate identifying itself to the cluster it is attempting to join. Additionally self interrogating the AEC prior to adding a designated device can illuminate for example necessary synchronizations between replica persistent data that can be accomplished prior to the addition.

At the AEC can be updated with at least the addition or removal of the designated device from the AEC based at least in part on the results of the self interrogation at . At this point method can end.

At the self interrogation can return information for at least one device of the AEC a designated device of the AEC a designated device communicatively coupled to the AEC or a combination thereof. The returned information can be related to at least a device identifier processor characteristic memory characteristic software characteristic human interface characteristic connectivity characteristic network characteristic location characteristic physical environment characteristic user characteristic AEC characteristic or combinations thereof. One of skill in the art will appreciate that self interrogation is intended to be able to access and return almost any information related to the electronic device the cluster the network the user or the environment of an electronic device. This information can be leveraged to the advantage of the users of AEE enabled systems and methods. A self interrogation can seek specific subsets of information. Such subsets can include some none or all of the available information for an electronic device inclusive of the user physical computing and network environments . For example a self interrogation of an altimeter that is part of an AEC can return information relating to the present geographical location and altitude of the altimeter. This exemplary altimeter information can cause the AEC to employ that specific altimeter to track changes in barometric pressure related to a storm cell passing near to the altimeters physical location. Numerous other examples of interrogation data can be envisioned and all such examples are considered squarely within the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter.

At at least a portion of the determined information from can be made available. This can be accomplished by reporting to the AEC updating at least a datum related to the AEC creating at least a datum accessible through the AEC or combinations thereof. At this point method can end. In an aspect self reporting can cause devices of or related to an AEC to gather and report information relating to themselves. In another related aspect an AEC can self interrogate to cause some or all of the AEC member devices to report information relating to themselves to generate information reflective of the AEC itself.

Self interrogation can be desirable in a dynamic cooperative environment e.g. an AEE and or an AEC because devices may be unable to interrogate other devices where there are hardware or software inconsistencies. For example it may be difficult for a military satellite to be interrogated by an IPHONE given the different operating systems the security measures and the communicative pathway complexities. However these various difficulties to directed interrogation are overcome with self interrogation wherein each device self interrogates and reports information or parts of it back to the AEC and or AEE . This can be especially powerful where the self interrogation is related to communicative pathways for AEC member devices. For example a cell phone can be in an over utilized cellular environment and face degraded performance but can be informed of a high speed Ethernet connection available by accessing a Bluetooth link to an AEC member laptop which reports that it is connected to a hotel wireless Ethernet connection. It is envisioned that the breadth of examples for self reporting can be as varied as the types of AECs that can be formed in AEEs and that all such self reporting examples are within the scope of the present disclosure.

At the binding from can allow the program from to interact with a SPIM related to the service for example the JAVA application in execution can now interact with the SPIM for searching music file metadata. At the SPIM at can facilitate interaction with an AEC component of the device executing the application of . Continuing the example the JAVA application through the metadata search SPIM can interact with the AEC component. One of skill in the art will appreciate that where a SPIM is an abstraction of service functionality as herein disclosed the SPIM can allow a calling application or program to interact with the AEC to effect the abstracted AEE service functionality. At the application of can access the service e.g. the JAVA application in execution at can access the music metadata search service through the AEC at by employing the SPIM abstraction of the metadata search service accessed at bound to the RTE silo of at .

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the SPIM at can be accessed by other RTEs e.g. a FLASH RTE at by employing different bindings at . In an aspect the APIs of the various affiliated RTEs can provide access to the SPIMs in their respective programming environments. Further affiliated RTE bindings to SPIMs can be provided for the various affiliated RTEs. In contrast to APIs which can be constrained to their particular RTE silos the SPIMs can be accessible from affiliated RTEs including affiliated native RTEs to allow access to AEE related services from within the various RTE silos that are otherwise generally non cooperative.

At and or the service at and or the AEC component at can access the OS layer and or the device component layers of a device executing the application at . Further at the AEC can announce and listen for events over the ESLB to other devices by way of their AEC components. For example a service resident on a desktop PC can be accessed by the exemplary JAVA application running on a smartphone at by way of the ESLB . In a related aspect it will be appreciated that the SPIM being an abstraction of service functionality can be a permissive gateway to the service e.g. where a SPIM is out of date the abstraction can be out of date and access to the service can fail the SPIM can incorporate authentication elements etc.

Returning to in a non limiting exemplary embodiment SPI component can further comprise a plurality of SPI modules including in this example GPS SPIM Maps SPIM Fleet Data SPIM and Traffic SPIM and others not illustrated . The SPIMs can facilitate agnostic access to AEE related services from within affiliated RTEs applications programs OSs or combinations thereof e.g. an affiliated RTE can include application development tools to access through an AEC component AEE services abstracted in a SPIM the application program and or OSs can include calls to SPIM AEE service function abstractions etc. . For example GPS SPIM can be related to global positioning satellite location services. As another example Maps SPIM can relate to mapping services. In a further example Fleet Data SPIM can related to truck fleet information and location services. As an additional example Traffic SPIM can relate to traffic data services. One or more of the RTEs e.g. those in can access these services by calling through the appropriate SPIM for example where Traffic App is a JAVA application it can access traffic data service by calling through the Traffic SPIM from within JAVA RTE .

Where system can employ a plurality of runtime environments RTE component can comprise for example FLASH RTE JAVA RTE native RTE other 3Party RTE WEBKIT RTE or combinations thereof and others not illustrated among numerous available RTEs as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. The various RTEs can facilitate access to desirable features within each siloed RTE. In traditional systems this access would result in siloing an application within the specific RTE. In contrast to traditional systems the features of the various RTEs of the exemplary system e.g. RTEs to according to the present disclosure can be accessed agnostically by for example employing AEE component to execute select code segments in a plurality of appropriate RTEs as needed. For example an application for plotting the movement of a fleet vehicle can access fleet data by way of fleet data SPIM compute and log the location in JAVA RTE and display the plot of the logged locations in the FLASH RTE e.g. the application can be developed to include calls to specific JAVA and FLASH features . For example the application can execute in JAVA and call a FLASH emulator to display the plot the application can execute in native and spawn a sub routine in JAVA to compute and a sub routine in FLASH to plot the application can be written in FLASH and use a Bytecode translator to do the computations in a JVM etc.

To better illustrate other examples of agnostic execution environments including those demonstrating cluster behavior non limiting exemplary programs and non limiting exemplary applications within the A P component such as Truck ETA application Traffic application or compute ETA program can be introduced. Exemplary Truck ETA application can be for example an application that can display the estimated time of arrival ETA for specified trucks within a vehicle fleet for example for a parcel delivery company. Exemplary Traffic application for example can be an application to access traffic information for specified roadways. Exemplary compute ETA application can be a helper computation program that can calculate an estimated time of arrival given a destination location a present location and a source of route information s . Further can be introduced to aid in illustrating certain aspects related to executing one or more of the exemplary applications and or programs.

In an aspect OBJ and OBJ can comprise shared memory e.g. joint memory space lookup tables etc. where they are both within AEC . In another aspect OBJ and OBJ can comprise separate memory e.g. distinct memory space private lookup tables etc. in that while they are in the same AEC they are also relative to separate electronic devices. In an example OBJ and OBJ can each comprise a local public memory a local private memory remote private memory and remote shared memory wherein both the local and remote private memory for each device can be unshared and non indexed privileged memories local public memories for each device can be indexed and accessible to other devices within AEC and the remote shared memory space for each device can be a memory resident in a cloud computing environment e.g. on a server that is shared by both devices simultaneously. One of skill in the art will appreciate the numerous other permutations for structuring memory amongst the various devices of an AEC jointly and severally as well as features associated with replication and synchronizing data among local remote and distributed members and components of an AEC. While not all such permutations are demonstrated in this particular non limiting example all such permutations are considered within the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

In a further aspect OBJ can be accessible by AEC . While OBJ can be separate from AEC it can be permissibly interrogated either directly e.g. memory made open generally to the public for example searching a library catalog by first gaining permission to directly access a memory for example accessing an email account etc. or indirectly e.g. requesting that a privileged entity access the memory for the AEC for example requesting a news feeds from an aggregator . Again as previously stated while not all of the numerous permutations readily apparent to one of skill in the art are demonstrated in these particular non limiting examples all such permutations are considered within the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

AEC and AEC can be communicatively coupled in a manner that is the same as or similar to other AEC systems disclosed herein e.g. system . As such AEC can for example be communicatively coupled to Fleet Truck GPS of AEC by way of for example cellular link satellite link broadcast frequency transmission internet servers Ethernet components etc. or combinations thereof. In a particular non limiting example AEC can receive information from Fleet Truck GPS by way of a first bearer for example a satellite uplink. Further in this example AEC can send information to Fleet Truck GPS by way of a separate bearer for example a uni directional RF broadcast from transmission antenna in the same geographic region as Fleet Truck GPS e.g. as the GPS unit in the truck travels along the interstate highway system . Numerous other examples are readily apparent and all such examples are within the scope of the disclosure.

Whereas a more expansive example can foster an appreciation of some of the various features of an AEE and or AEC a further multipart non limiting example is herewith presented in the following paragraphs with reference to both simultaneously. This example is intended only to aid in comprehension of some of the more subtle aspects of the disclosure and is not meant to read or breath limitation into these or any other aspects of the subject disclosure. This example can begin by appreciating that mobile phone of AEC in can comprise system of . Truck ETA application can be initiated e.g. application component can be the Truck ETA application in execution on mobile phone and ETA request can be generated from application component during execution e.g. can be an instance of Truck ETA application and can request an ETA for a specific truck in a fleet of trucks .

An event not illustrated correlating to an ETA request at can be written to the ESLB of AEC by EM . The event related to ETA request can include an identifier portion and a payload portion. EM components and can contemporaneously access the written event and based at least in part on the identifier portion can route the payload. As such EM can determine from the identifier portion that no action needs to be taken on Office PC . In contrast based at least in part on the identifier portion EM can determine that the Mobile phone OS not illustrated should be caused to seek location information at from all AEC object stores e.g. OBJ to . While these events are occurring within AEC other events can be occurring in AEC for example program of Fleet Truck GPS can be writing at a location data to OBJ . Further at the ESLB of can have an event written thereto indicating that the location information on OBJ was updated wherein the event can be read by EM from the ESLB without requiring further action based at least in part on the identification portion indicating it is a status update event .

Returning to AEC where the seek at did not resolve location data EM can write a status update event to the ESLB indicating that no data was located at . The status update at can be simultaneously read by EM and communicated to application component . Application component e.g. Truck ETA application can then cause an event to be written at by EM to the ESLB seeking that the search be expanded by way of fleet data SPIM to seek data from Fleet Truck GPS . The event at can be read by EM which can cause AEC to employ a communicative pathway e.g. through device hardware to communicate the event to EM by way of the ESLB of such as by a cellular network link to Fleet Truck GPS .

Within AEC AEC membership information can be requested at initiating a self interrogation on mobile phone and Office PC among other devices of AEC which results can be written to a shared table between OBJ and . Such membership information can then be reported among the cluster membership by writing an event to the ESLB. Meanwhile at a seek event can be written by EM to be read by OBJ and the location data written from can be returned by a write from OBJ that is read by EM .

In response at EM can communicate to AEC that fleet location data was found this can be read from the ESLB of by EM . The payload portion of the reporting event can indicate that the fleet data is in a large multi dimensional table. Based in part on this report and by determining from the self interrogation from that the processing capacity and bandwidth capacity at Office PC is substantially greater than Mobile phone a request event can be written and communicated from EM to EM e.g. over a communicative link between the separate ESLBs of AECs and requesting that the fleet location data be written to the Office PC OBJ .

At Truck ETA application can cause EM to communicate with Traffic App to seek traffic data. Meanwhile at EM can write an event to OBJ e.g. over the communicative coupling between the ESLB of and the ESLB of the event having a payload with the fleet location data found at e.g. that generated at .

At in a demonstration of split processor computing EM can write a request to the ESLB of AEC that identifies a payload containing an executable code segment portioned from Truck ETA application e.g. running on Mobile phone as application component to be executed on Office PC for example due to the predetermined better processing power from which can be read by EM . The identifier can cause EM to read the event and send the executable code to the OS of Office PC to compute a designated truck s location from the set of fleet data received at . At Office PC can seek the fleet location data on OBJ to compute the truck location and can then write the truck location e.g. by way of a write event on ESLB to OBJ . In addition at the Traffic data requested at through traffic SPIM can be returned from traffic application .

At EM can write a seek request to facilitate access to the designated truck s location data from OBJ . Meanwhile at Fleet Truck GPS can log location data and report an update the same as or similar to that done at . At the designated truck s location can be written back on the ESLB of and read by EM . This data can then be passed to Truck ETA application e.g. running as application component . Truck ETA application can then call Compute ETA program which can access route data from the maps SPIM and can access GPS data for mobile phone through GPS SPIM . The results of the computation can then be returned to Truck ETA application e.g. running as application component at .

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the applications programs and or e.g. running as application components can be written to each run in a siloed RTE. For example Truck ETA application can be a JAVA application Traffic application can be a 3Party RTE application and Compute ETA program can be written in native code and thus be considered in a native RTE . Furthermore one of skill in the art will appreciate that interposing the AEE component between the RTE layer e.g. and the OS layer e.g. can result in the EM interacting with the execution of the applications e.g. . This provides for RTE level agnostic behavior as illustrated in the present example. Furthermore whereas mobile phone Office PC and fleet truck GPS can each run a distinct OS OS level agnostic behavior can be appreciated by passing interactions between the devices through AEE component and thereby EM EM and EM .

In a further aspect the current example illustrates that object store components e.g. OBJ can be shared across an AEC held private and shared by communicating between AECs. Furthermore it will be appreciated that as elsewhere illustrated where devices are not part of an AEC they can still be communicatively accessed. This can allow for data to be located at one or more locations to facilitate efficient access distribution and persistence.

In an additional aspect split processing is demonstrated in the present example see . The cluster attributes of the present disclosure facilitate execution of code in an efficient manner among AEC members and even across multiple AEC and with non AEC members as elsewhere herein disclosed . In this particular example code related to complex processing of a large multidimensional table is best executed on a desktop PC as compared to a mobile device. As such even though the application code is running on the phone a portion of that code can be designated for execution on the desktop both OS agnostic and distributed processing .

While not illustrated in this particular example the AEC can be dynamic and members can be added and removed. The demonstration of self interrogation to determine the topology of the AEC at can facilitate efficient dynamic membership adaptation. For example where a larger work server computer were added to AEC the code split off at can have been run at the newly added server over the Office PC where the server can have been an even faster processor of the data. Of note if the server was to be assigned the processing the multidimensional table can have remained on the Office PC OBJ where it can be accessed by the server over a local high speed Ethernet connection to Office PC .

While this example can serve to illustrate several aspects of the subject disclosure more clearly it also illustrates that these many aspects and others can be combined in myriad ways. However one of skill in the art will appreciate that these numerous particular combinations are all within the scope of the subject disclosure as supported herein. The specific examples made employing are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure in any way but are merely intended to help illustrate the intricate nature of some of the many aspects of the present disclosure. Further the particular examples involving and can include further aspects described elsewhere herein.

Each electronic device can further comprise an AEC component not illustrated . This AEC component can comprise an AEC membership component MC e.g. MC respectively which can be the same as or similar to AEC membership component of system AEC membership components to of system AEC membership component of system AEC membership component of system or combinations thereof. The AEC component can similarly comprise an object store component e.g. OBJ respectively which can be the same as or similar to object store component of system object store component of system object store components to of system object store component of system object store component of system object store components of service flow or combinations thereof. The AEC component can also comprise an AEC event manager component e.g. EM respectively which can be the same as or similar to any of the various AEC event manager components of system AEC event manager components to of system AEC event manager component of system AEC event manager component of system AEC event manager components of service flow or combinations thereof.

In an aspect OBJ and OBJ can be the same as or similar to OBJ and and comprise shared memory separate memory or combinations thereof while PDA and STB are in the same AEC. In an example while PDA and STB are members of AEC OBJ and OBJ can each comprise a local public memory a local private memory remote private memory and remote shared memory wherein both the local and remote private memory for each device can be unshared and non indexed privileged memories local public memories for each device can be indexed and accessible to other devices within AEC and the remote shared memory space for each device can be a memory resident in a network attached storage device not illustrated that is shared by both devices simultaneously e.g. by Ethernet to STB by FTP client to PDA etc. . One of skill in the art will appreciate the numerous other permutations for structuring memory amongst the various devices of an AEC e.g. AEC jointly and severally as well as features associated with replication and synchronizing data among local remote and distributed members and components of an AEC. While not all such permutations are demonstrated in this particular non limiting example all such permutations are considered within the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

In a further aspect OBJ can be accessible by AEC even when Smartphone is not a member of AEC . Similarly OBJ can be accessible by AEC even after PDA withdraws at from AEC as is described hereinbelow. While OBJ can be separate from AEC it can be permissibly interrogated either directly or indirectly in a manner that is the same as or similar to that described above in regard to system . Again as previously stated while not all of the numerous permutations readily apparent to one of skill in the art are demonstrated in these particular non limiting examples all such permutations are considered within the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

AEC and AEC and similarly AEC as will be disclosed hereinbelow can be communicatively coupled in a manner that is the same as or similar to other AEC systems disclosed herein e.g. system etc. . As such AEC or members thereof can for example be communicatively coupled to Smartphone of AEC by way of for example cellular link satellite link broadcast frequency transmission internet servers Ethernet components etc. In a particular non limiting example AEC can employ asymmetric bearer path communications for example receiving information from Smartphone by way of a first bearer for example a 3G cellular network. and sending information to Smartphone by way of a distinct bearer for example WiFi. Numerous other examples are readily apparent and all such examples are within the scope of the disclosure.

To foster comprehension of some of the various features of an AEE and or AEC a further multipart non limiting example is herewith presented in the following paragraphs. This example can begin by appreciating that AEC can initially include PDA and STB and AEC being a separate cluster can include Smartphone . Further each of PDA STB and Smartphone can belong to the same user.

The user can determine that they would like to add Smartphone to their cluster e.g. AEC . At for example in response to the user indicating the desired addition EM of Smartphone can signal MC with a request to add Smartphone to AEC . This request can cause Smartphone to begin a self interrogation for example by accessing and or updating a table of information on OBJ relating to the characteristics of the devices in AEC . The request can also be the impetus for example by way of signaling between AEC and Smartphone associated with the request to add at for the devices of AEC e.g. PDA and STB to begin self interrogations at with the results being shared by for example establishing an ESLB . One of skill in the art will appreciate that communicative pathways other than an ESLB can be established to facilitate access to information relating to the self interrogations at and for example writing to a shared directory in the cloud non ES LB communicative couplings such as Bluetooth WiFi 3 4G EDGE etc. all of which are within the scope of the present disclosure.

At the membership information for AEC can be updated to reflect that Smartphone has been added to AEC . This can include the EM of each member device sending an update message to the respective MC of the device e.g. EM signals MC EM signals MC EM signals MC . In an aspect the addition of Smartphone to AEC can be independent of Smartphone remaining a member of AEC . For example Smartphone can be a member of AEC and AEC simultaneously. For ease of illustration Smartphone is shown as leaving AEC to join AEC at . As such AEC is extinguished by in this particular example.

At EM can cause a conflict resolution to begin within newly expanded AEC e.g. now including Smartphone . This can include determining the status of data in accordance with a particular conflict resolution schema. The conflict resolution can be initiated across the cluster by posting an event on the ESLB for AEC that can be listened for by the EM of each device in the cluster as illustrated at .

At EM of Smartphone can write an event to the ESLB indicating the contacts on Smartphone are out of date. This event can be read from the ESLB by EM and can also be read contemporaneously by EM . This can for example result in EM performing a self interrogation related to contact information stored in OBJ . Similarly this can also for example result in EM performing a self interrogation related to contact information stored in OBJ . At for example based at least in part on the self interrogations at and the self interrogations at PDA can turn on a Bluetooth system of the PDA device system not illustrated in response to a message from MC to EM . This message can for example indicate that the PDA has the most current contacts data set of AEC e.g. gleaned from the self interrogations of and or the determinations of . This message can further indicate for example that both Smartphone and PDA have Bluetooth capabilities e.g. from the self interrogations at . The message can additionally indicate that Bluetooth should be selected based on for example a determination by MC that this is a sufficiently fast means of updating contact data between PDA and Smartphone that a directive from a 3G network provider indicates that 3G bandwidth is currently congested and other bearer paths are highly preferable that PDA and Smartphone are physically near enough for effective Bluetooth communication e.g. gleaned from a location datum of self interrogations at etc. Further at the message to EM can cause EM to write a turn Bluetooth on message onto the ESLB with an identifier portion indicating that the event should be read only by Smartphone . In response EM of Smartphone can read the event and turn on a Bluetooth system of the Smartphone device system not illustrated . Continuing at out of date contact data can be identified and reported for example from OBJ to EM . Further at out of date contact information identified can be updated for example over a Bluetooth coupling between PDA and Smartphone e.g. data updated between OBJ and OBJ .

At EM of STB can write an event to the ESLB indicating the playlists metadata on Smartphone is out of date. This event can be read from the ESLB by EM . This event can also be read contemporaneously by EM not illustrated . This can for example result in EM performing a self interrogation related to playlist metadata information stored in OBJ and the shared portions of OBJ . Continuing at out of date playlist metadata can be identified and reported for example from OBJ to EM . Further at out of date playlist metadata information identified can be updated on OBJ for example over a WiFi coupling between STB and Smartphone e.g. data updated between OBJ and OBJ . One of skill in the art will appreciate that where portions of OBJ are shared across the cluster information contained thereon can also be updated to OBJ not illustrated for example by being aggregated to OBJ by being wrapped into an event payload and written to the ESLB and read out to OBJ by EM etc.

While the service flow at is proceeding at EM can receive a signal that the PDA battery is running low not illustrated for example from a device hardware layer battery monitoring application OS level indicator etc. This can result in EM signaling MC about the low battery condition. In response MC can signal EM to turn off the Bluetooth system to conserve remaining battery power. While the illustrated service flow at demonstrates that the playlist metadata update occurs over a WiFi connection with STB it will be appreciated by one of skill in the art based on the disclosure herein that were the update was initiated with a Bluetooth link between Smartphone and PDA when MC requests the Bluetooth be turned off because of the low battery condition EM can signal EM to complete the update by switching bearer paths to WiFi and routing the remainder of the update through STB for example by employing shared object store space. The ability of an AEC membership component to dynamically select bearer paths and route signaling e.g. similar to a Layer 3 to Layer 7 application switch can be a powerful tool that can facilitate self healing of perturbed processes dynamic QOS LOS adjustments to routing etc. as will be appreciated by one of skill in the art and all such features are within the scope of the present disclosure and are not limited to this simplistic example.

At stored images and video content can be transferred from OBJ to OBJ for example to free space on OBJ to place high bandwidth content at a cluster node with higher speed bearer paths e.g. STB can have a high speed internet connection etc. In the illustrated example at the transfer can be by EDGE network for example where STB can be located at the user s home and the transfer from the Smartphone can be occurring as the user is driving to work. The use of EDGE illustrates that while the Smartphone can have access to 3G the slower EDGE network can be selected for a lower priority data transfer e.g. large volume of data transferred at a slower speed where the speed of transfer is not a priority . This can occur for example where MC is signaled that the 3G network is available but reserved for priority traffic. Such signaling can be effected by a network carrier for example by direct signaling by setting a value in a lookup table accessed by MC etc. It is readily apparent that numerous metrics for determining bearer path selection and or notification can be employed and that all are within the scope of the disclosed subject matter. Moreover it will be appreciated that a network provider can actively and dynamically manipulate the use of network resources by way of techniques that signal subscriber devices all such techniques are also to be considered within the scope of this disclosure. For example regional priority surfaces can be mapped such that as a device travels between regional zones the threshold priority level for data to employ certain levels of service can fluctuate.

At PDA can request to withdraw e.g. MC can signal EM from AEC based for example on the low battery condition reported to MC at . In response to the signaled request to leave AEC EM can write an event to the ESLB of AEC which can cause listening AEC event manager components e.g. EM to self interrogate their associated devices as illustrated. Further at membership information can be updated and reported back to the AEC membership components e.g. MC of the devices of AEC . At this point PDA can be considered to be removed from AEC as depicted. Thus at AEC can comprise a single device e.g. PDA . Further at EM can initiate a self interrogation of the single device member of AEC reporting results to persistent data storage on OBJ . At this point EM can send instructions to the device layer not illustrated of PDA to sleep PDA such that the most current state of PDA is written to OBJ to facilitate returning to said most current state when the PDA battery is recharged and PDA is brought out of sleep status.

At Smartphone can access and view prerecorded video content. As illustrated this content can be distributed between both OBJ of Smartphone and OBJ of STB . This can occur for example where only a portion of the content has been transferred between the persistent object stores for example the first minutes of the program are buffered on OBJ such that as the remainder of the content is transferred from OBJ the transfer is more tolerant to latency. One of skill in the art will appreciate that QOS LOS determinations not illustrated for example those which can be made by MC and or MC can be employed to determine aspects of data replication across AEC persistent object stores e.g. OBJ and . The accessed and viewed content at can be initially accessed by way of a 3G network e.g. the transfer of content from OBJ to OBJ can be over a 3G network . MC can then determine that the bearer path for the program content be switched for example from 3G to WiFi. This can occur for example where the user is returning home from work watching the content in the back seat of his carpool vehicle and content is being accessed by 3G. As the user arrives home Smartphone can automatically log into his home wireless LAN. Upon logging in STB can signal Smartphone to switch bearer path for content to the WiFi for faster data transfer and less loading of the carrier network.

One of skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other permutations of the presented scenarios within service flow are possible and will further appreciate that these other permutations are within the scope of the present subject matter. Further it will be appreciated that the specific examples given in the context of service flow are intended to illustrate aspect of the subject disclosure and are not meant to be limiting in any manner.

Access point also includes a processor configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any electronic component in AP . In an aspect processor can facilitate determination of propagation delay information of RF signal or microwave signal among communication platform and antennas . Power supply can attach to a power grid and include one or more transformers to achieve power level that can operate AP components and circuitry. Additionally power supply can include a rechargeable power component to ensure operation when AP is disconnected from the power grid or in instances the power grid is not operating.

Processor also is functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. Moreover processor is functionally connected via a data or system bus to calibration platform and other components not shown to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In AP memory can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission location intelligence storage determined delay offset s over the air propagation models and so on. Processor is coupled to the memory in order to store and retrieve information necessary to operate and or confer functionality to communication platform calibration platform and other components not shown of access point .

In addition to receiving and processing CS switched traffic and signaling PS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions with served mobile devices. Data sessions can include traffic or content s exchanged with networks external to the wireless network platform like wide area network s WANs enterprise network s and service network s which can be embodied in local area network s LANs can also be interfaced with mobile network platform through PS gateway node s . It is to be noted that WANs and enterprise network s can embody at least in part a service network s like IP multimedia subsystem IMS . Based on radio technology layer s available in technology resource s packet switched gateway node s can generate packet data protocol contexts when a data session is established other data structures that facilitate routing of packetized data also can be generated. To that end in an aspect PS gateway node s can include a tunnel interface e.g. tunnel termination gateway TTG in 3GPP UMTS network s not shown which can facilitate packetized communication with disparate wireless network s such as Wi Fi networks.

In embodiment wireless network platform also includes serving node s that based upon available radio technology layer s within technology resource s convey the various packetized flows of data streams received through PS gateway node s . It is to be noted that for technology resource s that rely primarily on CS communication server node s can deliver traffic without reliance on PS gateway node s for example server node s can embody at least in part a mobile switching center. As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network serving node s can be embodied in serving GPRS support node s SGSN .

For radio technologies that exploit packetized communication server s in wireless network platform can execute numerous applications e.g. location services online gaming wireless banking wireless device management . . . that can generate multiple disparate packetized data streams or flows and manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . such flows. Such application s can include add on features to standard services for example provisioning billing customer support . . . provided by wireless network platform . Data streams e.g. content s that are part of a voice call or data session can be conveyed to PS gateway node s for authorization authentication and initiation of a data session and to serving node s for communication thereafter. In addition to application server server s can include utility server s a utility server can include a provisioning server an operations and maintenance server a security server that can implement at least in part a certificate authority and firewalls as well as other security mechanisms and the like. In an aspect security server s secure communication served through wireless network platform to ensure network s operation and data integrity in addition to authorization and authentication procedures that CS gateway node s and PS gateway node s can enact. Moreover provisioning server s can provision services from external network s like networks operated by a disparate service provider for instance WAN or Global Positioning System GPS network s not shown . Provisioning server s can also provision coverage through networks associated to wireless network platform e.g. deployed and operated by the same service provider such as femto cell network s not shown that enhance wireless service coverage within indoor confined spaces and offload RAN resources in order to enhance subscriber service experience within a home or business environment.

It is to be noted that server s can include one or more processors configured to confer at least in part the functionality of macro network platform . To that end the one or more processor can execute code instructions stored in memory for example. It is should be appreciated that server s can include a content manager which operates in substantially the same manner as described hereinbefore.

In example embodiment memory can store information related to operation of wireless network platform . Other operational information can include provisioning information of mobile devices served through wireless platform network subscriber databases application intelligence pricing schemes e.g. promotional rates flat rate programs couponing campaigns technical specification s consistent with telecommunication protocols for operation of disparate radio or wireless technology layers and so forth. Memory can also store information from at least one of telephony network s WAN enterprise network s or SS7 network . In an aspect memory can be for example accessed as part of an object store component e.g. etc. or as a remotely connected memory store e.g. etc. such stored information can be accessed by AEC services by way of SPI components e.g. etc. by AEC membership components e.g. etc. by AEC event manager components e.g. etc. or combinations thereof.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

In the subject specification terms such as store storage data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in system memory memory memory memory memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive systems can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. PDA phone watch microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system which can be e.g. the OS of a device in an AEC such as OS . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . Program modules and program data collectively can be for example applications programs RTE components or combinations thereof running on a device in an AEC and or components of or in an AEE SPI module s object s stored through an Object Store component etc. It is to be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information e.g. via interface component into computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s which could be e.g. in the hardware of another device that is part of the same AEC as the device whose hardware includes computer in another device in another AEC in a device not connected with any AEC etc. . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL . As noted below wireless technologies may be used in addition to or in place of the foregoing.

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. For instance Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects of the subject innovation as disclosed in the subject specification can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. internet data service network such as internet protocol television IPTV can exploit aspects or features described herein.

The above description of illustrated embodiments of the subject disclosure including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments and examples are described herein for illustrative purposes various modifications are possible that are considered within the scope of such embodiments and examples as those skilled in the relevant art can recognize.

In this regard while the disclosed subject matter has been described in connection with various embodiments and corresponding Figures where applicable it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiments for performing the same similar alternative or substitute function of the disclosed subject matter without deviating therefrom. Therefore the disclosed subject matter should not be limited to any single embodiment described herein but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims below.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or system or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects or features disclosed in the subject specification also can be effected through program modules that implement at least one or more of the methods disclosed herein the program modules being stored in a memory and executed by at least a processor. Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store storage data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods illustrative of the disclosed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every combination of components or methodologies here. One of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

